CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7867-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third National Program for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 9, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated April 9, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions 
for Loans, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 2008) (“General 
Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred eighty five million 
United States Dollars (US$785,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MOHA, in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the 
Borrower, through the PMD, shall have adopted the Project Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.  
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
Telex: 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY 45799  
DJMLN-IA  
 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is that villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from 
improved socio-economic and local governance conditions. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1:  Kecamatan Grants 
(a) 
Provision of Kecamatan Grants to Beneficiaries to support:  
(i)  
planning for community development, including the preparation of Sub-
Project proposals;  
(ii)  
training and capacity building, including in development planning and 
investment;  
(iii)  
investment in social and economic infrastructure identified through 
community development planning;  
(iv)  
investment in activities identified through community development 
planning using Revolving Funds; and  
(v)  
preparing for and responding to disaster, emergency or catastrophic 
event, as needed, through Sub-projects and/or using the Project 
implementation arrangements. 
(b) 
Provision of Kecamatan Grants to Beneficiaries for Pilot and Special Programs. 
Part 2:  Facilitation Support   
Provision of technical advisory services, training and other material support, through 
Facilitators, to strengthen the capacity of Kabupaten and Kecamatan government 
institutions and communities in development planning and investment.    
Part 3:  Implementation Support and Technical Assistance 
Provision of technical advisory services, training  and other material support for PNPM 
implementation at national- Province-  Kabupaten- and Kecamatan- levels, including 
training of Facilitators, monitoring and evaluation and enhanced technical and financial 
audits. 
 
6
Part 4:  Project Management Support 
Provision of technical advisory services and other material support to strengthen PMD 
and support the management of the incremental activities generated by the Project. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
At the national level, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure that the Project shall be implemented under the umbrella of 
PNPM, and subject to the overall guidance of Tim Pengendali PNPM;
(b) 
through MOHA, designate PMD to be responsible for the overall 
management and monitoring of the Project at the national level; 
 
(c) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, cause PMD 
to: 
 
(i)  
maintain, until the completion of the Project, the PMD 
Secretariat, with a mandate, composition and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower and set out in the Project 
Manual, to be responsible for the management and monitoring of 
the Project;  
 
(ii)  
ensure that the PMD Secretariat shall be provided with adequate 
funds and other resources, and supported by qualified personnel 
in adequate numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of 
the Project, including a suitably qualified  Project Manager and 
National Management Consultants;  
 
(iii) 
ensure coordination, as necessary, with the Tim Pengendali 
PNPM; and 
 
(iv) 
in the event that PMD decides to establish more than one PMD 
Secretariat, in consultation with the Bank, then each PMD 
Secretariat shall meet the requirements set out in this paragraph. 
 
2. 
At the Province level, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank and the Borrower 
may otherwise agree: 
 
(a) 
cause to be established in each Province prior to the disbursement of any 
Kecamatan Grant in such Province, and thereafter maintained until the 
completion of the Project, a Provincial Satker, to be responsible for the 
8
day-to-day implementation of the Project at the Province-level, with a 
mandate, composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and 
the Borrower, and set out in the Project Manual;  
 
(b) 
ensure that each Provincial Satker shall be provided with adequate funds 
and other resources, and supported by qualified personnel in adequate 
numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project, including, 
a PJOK, and Oversight Consultants; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that each Provincial Satker shall coordinate Project activities, as 
necessary, with the Provincial Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team 
responsible for its respective Province. 
 
3. 
At the Kabupaten level, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank and the Borrower 
may otherwise agree: 
 
(a) 
cause to be established in each Project Kabupaten prior to the 
disbursement of any Kecamatan Grant in such Project Kabupaten, and 
thereafter maintained until the completion of the Project, a Kabupaten 
Satker, to be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the 
Project at the Kabupaten and Kecamatan levels, with a mandate, 
composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the 
Borrower, as set out in the Project Manual;  
 
(b) 
ensure that each Kabupaten Satker shall be provided with adequate funds 
and other resources, and supported by qualified personnel in adequate 
numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project, including, 
a PJOK and Facilitators; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that each Kabupaten Satker shall coordinate Project activities, as 
necessary, with the Kabupaten Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team 
Team responsible for its respective area. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the appointment letter (surat keputusan) for each 
Provincial Satker and each Kabupaten Satker is issued in a timely manner early 
in each fiscal year of Project implementation. 
 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the PMD: 
 
(a) 
adopt, and thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, a Project 
Manual acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, giving details of:        
(i) implementation arrangements; (ii) procurement procedures as set forth 
9
in Section III of this Schedule and standard procurement documentation; 
(iii) reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit 
procedures as set forth in Section II.B of this Schedule; (iv) project 
performance indicators; (v) the Environmental Management Framework, 
the Isolated Vulnerable Peoples Framework, and the Land Acquisition 
and Resettlement Framework, including the technical guidelines for 
implementation of such frameworks; (vi) Eligibility Criteria for the 
selection of Sub-projects and the terms and conditions of governing the 
Kecamatan Grants and Local Government Participation, including the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 1 to this Schedule;             
(vii) maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under a Sub-
project; and (viii) the Better Governance Action Plan;  
(b) 
adopt, prior to the commencement of Sub-project selection for any Pilot 
and Special Program or Sub-project for a natural disaster, emergency or 
catastrophic event under Part 1(a)(v) of the Project, a Supplemental 
Manual, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, as necessary to set out 
criteria and implementation arrangement unique to such Pilot and Special 
Program; 
(c) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the 
Project Manual or any Supplemental Manual without the prior written 
agreement of the Bank and the Borrower; 
(d) 
ensure that the Project Manual, and each Supplemental Manual, as 
applicable, is made available, at all times until completion of the Project, 
to each Local Government and all Oversight Consultants and Facilitators, 
and applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; and  
(e) 
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, update the Project Manual, 
and each Supplemental Manual, as necessary, at all times ensuring 
compliance thereof with the terms of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of providing Kecamatan Grants to Beneficiaries under the 
Project, the Borrower shall only submit an application for withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) in the Table in Section IV.A of 
this Schedule to finance Sub-projects prepared and selected in accordance with 
the Eligibility Criteria set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule, the Project Manual, 
and any applicable Supplemental Manual. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Facilitators are contracted, trained and mobilized 
by no later than April 30 in each year of Project implementation in accordance 
with the Project Manual. 
 
10 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that, prior to carrying out Sub-project 
works, the technical Facilitators shall have completed a technical review of each 
Sub-project in accordance with the Project Manual and the requirements of 
Annex 1 to this Schedule.  The Borrower shall ensure that the applicable 
Kabupaten Satker shall retain records of each such review. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to undertaking any activities under Part 
1(a)(v) of the Project with respect to any natural disaster, emergency or 
catastrophic event, (a) the Bank and the Borrower have agreed in writing that a 
disaster, emergency and/or catastrophic event requiring support for such 
activities has occurred; and (b) the Bank and the Borrower have adopted a 
Supplemental Manual, if necessary, which defines the scope of such activities, 
and their implementation and disbursement arrangements. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure, on an annual basis during Project 
implementation, that adequate budget is made for training of Facilitators and 
Oversight Consultants based on a training plan agreed in writing between the 
Bank and the Borrower.  The Borrower shall ensure that the Facilitators 
responsible for Sub-projects shall provide facilitation services until such Sub-
projects are completed. 
 
7. 
The Borrower and the Bank shall agree, by no later than June 30 in each year of 
Project implementation, commencing on the first June 30 to occur after the 
Effective Date, on the list with each Project Kecamatan, which will be eligible 
for Sub-projects for the upcoming calendar year. 
 
8. 
The PMD Secretariat shall make available to the public through its website and 
in hard copy at its office, at all times until completion of the Project, free of 
charge, a list of each Project Kecamatan, amounts of Kecamatan Grants and the 
Project Manual. 
 
9. 
The Borrower, through the PMD Secretariat will coordinate with and ensure that 
Provincial and Kabupaten Satkers arrange for the public disclosure of complaints 
and cases related to the Project, if any, and their handling and resolution, 
including through media sources and on the PNPM website.  By no later than the 
date which is two (2) months after the Effective Date, the PMD Secretariat will 
issue instructions to Provincial and Kabupaten Satkers, agreed between the PMD 
Secretariat and the Bank, which specify the criteria for which types of 
complaints and cases shall be disclosed in accordance with this paragraph. 
 
10. 
The Borrower, through the PMD Secretariat, shall, by no later than three (3) 
months after the Effective Date, issue instructions or issue an updated Project 
Manual, acceptable to the PMD Secretariat and the Bank, to all Local 
Governments at the Kabupaten, Kecamatan and Province levels and to relevant 
11 
 
stakeholders defining time periods within which categories of complaints/cases 
must be resolved, to whom they should be escalated if not resolved within such 
time periods and what the consequences will be if such cases are not resolved or 
escalated in accordance with such instructions. 
 
11. 
The PMD Secretariat shall ensure that the relevant Camat and Bupati in each 
Project Kecamatan and Project Kabupaten shall make publicly available by 
December 31 in each year of Project implementation, commencing on December 
31, 2010, the results of Project implementation and accounts for funds used 
during such year. 
 
12. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, auditing activities under the Project, including those referred to 
in Section II.B of this Schedule, are carried out in accordance with: (a) BPKP’s 
audit manual, dated November 30, 2007, as such manual may be amended from 
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank and subject to its 
continued acceptability to the Bank; and (b) in accordance with terms of 
reference agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
13. 
With respect to PNPM rural sub-projects financed from sources other than the 
Loan, including PNPM rural sub-projects for which Facilitators are financed by 
the Project but the PNPM rural sub-projects are themselves financed from such 
other sources, the PMD Secretariat shall:  
 
(i) 
undertake such sub-projects in accordance with the Project 
Manual; and  
 
(ii) 
retain responsibility for the design, construction, fiduciary 
controls and implementation of such sub-projects. 
 
C. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards 
 
1. 
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure that the proceeds of Kecamatan Grants shall not be used to 
finance the acquisition of land; 
(b) 
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
villagers, and to avoid the displacement of such villagers; 
(c) 
where the acquisition of land or assets, or the displacement of people is 
unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the Beneficiary 
shall, before carrying out the works which would result in such 
12 
 
acquisition or displacement, provide to such people, adequate 
compensation, and other resettlement and rehabilitation benefits, in 
accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework; and 
(d) 
in the case of the physical displacement of persons involving the loss of 
more than ten percent (10%)of their productive assets or the 
displacement of more than two hundred (200) people as a result of a Sub-
project, ensure that: 
(i) 
a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan shall be 
prepared in accordance with the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Framework, and furnished to the Bank for approval; 
and 
(ii) 
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all 
Displaced Persons shall have been compensated and provided 
with applicable resettlement and rehabilitation benefits in 
accordance with the provisions of such Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Action Plan. 
 
2. 
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
avoid, and, if not possible, minimize cultural, social and economic 
adverse effects on Isolated Vulnerable People, caused or likely to be 
caused by the Project, by taking appropriate mitigating measures; and 
 
(b) 
through a process of informed participation, involve concerned Isolated 
Vulnerable People in the design and implementation of Sub-projects so 
as to ensure that the benefits received by the Isolated Vulnerable People 
under the Project are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural 
preferences, and likely to protect their customary user rights. 
 
3. 
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall ensure that the provisions of the 
Environmental Management Framework have been complied with and, where 
applicable, an Environmental Management Plan fully consistent with this 
Agreement and the Environmental Management Framework has been prepared 
and agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank upon and applied in 
the implementation of such Sub-project. 
 
13 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services other than Consultants’ Services.   All goods, 
works and services other than consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
14 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services other 
than Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services other than consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services other than 
Consultants’ Services.
The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services other than consultants’ services.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
procedures set out in Annex 2 to this Schedule 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)   Direct Contracting 
(d)   Community Participation using procedures acceptable to the Bank as set 
out in the Project Manual 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
15 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality Based Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)   Least Cost Selection 
(d)   Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(e)   Single-source Selection 
(e)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g)   Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Kecamatan Grants under Part 1(a) of 
the Project 
 
629,180,000 
 
80% of Kecamatan 
Grant amount 
disbursed 
16 
 
(2)  Kecamatan Grants under Part 1(b) of 
the Project 
54,820,000 
100% of Kecamatan 
Grant amount 
disbursed 
 
(3)  Consultants services, goods, training 
and workshops, and incremental 
operating costs* for facilitation 
support under Part 2 of the Project 
 
76,000,000 
100% 
(4)  Consultants services, goods, training 
and workshops, and incremental 
operating costs for implementation 
support and technical assistance 
under Part 3 of the Project 
 
23,000,000 
100% 
(5)  Consultants services, goods, training 
and workshops, and incremental 
operating costs for Project 
management support under Part 4 of 
the Project 
 
2,000,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
785,000,000 
 
*For the purposes of this Table: (i) “training and workshops” means Project-related training 
and workshops conducted in the territory of the Borrower, including purchase and 
publication of materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and travel and subsistence of 
trainees; and (ii) “incremental operating costs” means reasonable costs arising under the 
Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries; travel and other travel-
related expenditures; equipment rental and maintenance; vehicle operation, maintenance 
and repair; office rental and maintenance; materials and supplies; and utilities and 
communications expenses, but excluding salaries an honoraria of officials and staff of the 
Borrower.  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a)  
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
(b)   
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $157,000,000 
17 
 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after February 10, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
18 
 
ANNEX 1 to SCHEDULE 2 
 
Terms and Conditions for Sub-projects and Kecamatan Grants 
 
A. 
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects 
 
1. 
(a)  
Kecamatan Grants may be provided for: (i) planning;(ii) training; and 
(iii) investment may to support investment proposals presented on behalf 
of communities to finance economic or social infrastructure activities 
pertaining to Sub-projects other than those which are prohibited pursuant 
to paragraphs 2-4 of this Section A of this Annex, provided, however, 
that such Sub-projects: 
(i)   
are technically and financially feasible, and capable of being 
implemented by the communities themselves with only locally 
available technical assistance; and 
(ii) 
are of benefit to the communities, and to the poor in particular; 
and respond to a public need. 
(b) 
The amount of each Kecamatan Grant shall be calculated in accordance 
with the Decree of the Coordinating Minister for People’s Welfare (No. 
B.192/MENKO/KESRA/X/2009, dated October 12, 2009) and the Surat 
Menteri Dalam Negeri (No.414/0012/PMD, dated January 5, 2010 and 
No.414.2/276/PMD, dated January 25, 2010), as such decree and letters 
may be revised or re-issued from time to time with the concurrence of 
the Bank. 
2. 
No Kecamatan Grant shall be made to finance expenditures pertaining to or 
involving: (a) a military or paramilitary purpose; (b) civil works for government 
administration or religious purposes; (c) the manufacture or use of 
environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides and herbicides), 
arms or drugs; (d) the manufacture or use of dynamite; (e) the financing of 
government salaries; (f) the production, processing, handling, storage or sale of 
tobacco or products containing tobacco; (g) activities within a nature reserve or 
any other area designated by the Borrower for the management and/or the 
protection of biodiversity, except with the prior written approval of the 
Borrower’s agency responsible for the management and/or protection of such 
area; (h) mining or excavation of live coral; (i) water resources development on 
rivers which flow into or out of another country; (j) alterations to river courses; 
(k) land reclamation covering an area in excess of 50 hectares; (l) new irrigation 
schemes covering an area in excess of 50 hectares; (m) the construction of water 
19 
 
retaining or storage structures of a capacity greater than 10,000 cubic meters; or 
(n) the provision of goods, works or services, directly or through intermediaries, 
by suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, who have been declared 
ineligible to participate in the procurement of any Bank-financed or Bank-
financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of time, as a result 
of a decision of the Bank, and in accordance with the terms of the decision; or (o) 
to finance land acquisition. 
3. 
No Kecamatan Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan unless Facilitator(s) are engaged and carry out their functions in such 
Kecamatan accordance with the Project Manual for a cumulative period of at 
least eight (8) months in each fiscal year. 
4. 
No Kecamatan Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan for a Pilot and Special Program unless the Borrower shall have adopted a 
Supplemental Manual for such Pilot and Special Program acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank, or the Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed in 
writing that a Supplemental Manual is not required for such Pilot and Special 
Program.   
5. 
No Kecamatan Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan for Part 1(a)(v) of the Project with respect to any natural disaster, 
emergency or catastrophic event unless: (a) the Bank and the Borrower have 
agreed in writing that a disaster, emergency and/or catastrophic event requiring 
support for such activities has occurred; and (b) the Bank and the Borrower have 
adopted a Supplemental Manual, if necessary, which defines the scope of such 
activities, and their implementation and disbursement arrangements. 
B. 
Sub-project Review and Selection 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Sub-project is the subject of a corresponding 
proposal for a Kecamatan Grant that has been prepared, submitted and reviewed 
in accordance with the guidelines, procedures and selection criteria set forth in 
the Project Manual and this Annex.  
2. 
The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that, with respect to each Sub-project 
and prior to carrying out Sub-project works, a technical Facilitator shall have 
completed a technical review of each Sub-project in accordance with the Project 
Manual and the requirements of this Annex to ensure that all requirements have 
been complied with, including, except as may be otherwise agreed in writing by 
the Bank and the Borrower: 
20 
 
(a) 
necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been 
obtained, including a Kecamatan Grant, any Local Government 
Participation and any additional contributions to be made by 
communities themselves or from other sources; 
 
(b) 
the provisions of the Environmental Management Framework have been 
complied with and, where applicable, an Environmental Management 
Plan fully consistent with this Agreement and the Environmental 
Management Framework has been prepared and agreed upon and 
adopted; 
 
(c) 
the provisions of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework 
have been complied with and, where applicable, a Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Action Plan fully consistent with this Agreement and the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, and deemed satisfactory 
to the Displaced Persons, has been agreed upon and adopted; 
 
(d) 
the provisions of the Isolated Vulnerable People Development 
Framework, if applicable, has been complied with; and 
 
(e) 
a maintenance program for works to be carried out under the Sub-project 
and related goods has been prepared. 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Kabupaten Satker shall retain records of each 
such review. 
C. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-project Agreements 
 
1. Prior to the commencement of any Sub-project or the disbursement of any 
Kecamatan Grant:  
 
(a) 
a Sub-project Agreement shall be signed between the relevant PJOK, on 
behalf of the Local Government, and the Project Kecamatan, through the 
UPK, with respect to the transfer of funds from the central government 
account to the UPK, and 
 
(b) 
 between the UPK and the Beneficiary, setting forth the respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, including: 
 
(i) 
that the Beneficiary shall carry out the Sub-project in accordance 
with this Agreement, the Project Manual, any applicable 
Supplemental Manual, the provisions of the Better Governance 
Action Plan, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, the 
21 
 
Environmental Management Framework, the Land Acquisition 
and Resettlement Framework and the Isolated Vulnerable 
Peoples Framework; 
 
(ii) 
the requirement that each Beneficiary procure the goods, works 
and services to be financed out of the Sub-project in accordance 
with provisions that are fully consistent with  the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
that the Beneficiary shall monitor and evaluate the progress of 
the Sub-project in accordance with the Project Manual; 
 
(iv) 
that the Beneficiary shall maintain a financial management 
system in accordance with the Project Manual and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank; and at the Bank’s 
or the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the 
Borrower and the Bank;  
 
(v) 
that the Beneficiary enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect 
the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents; and prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the 
Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing;  
 
(vi) 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, including the right of the PJOK to: (A) suspend or 
terminate the right of the UPK or the Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of Kecamatan Grant; or (B) obtain a refund of the 
Kecamatan Grant upon the failure of the UPK or the Beneficiary 
to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-project 
Agreement. 
 
22 
 
ANNEX 2 to SCHEDULE 2 
 
Clarifications Relating to National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
1. 
General
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth 
in Presidential Decree No.80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the clarifications 
and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for compliance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Loans” dated 
May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Guidelines). 
 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a condition 
for participation in the bidding process.  
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders: (i) shall be 
allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not be 
denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully 
perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
 
3. 
Pre-qualification
(a) 
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works.  Normally, post-
qualification shall be used.  Pre-qualification shall be required only for large or complex 
works with the prior ‘no objection’ of the World Bank.  When pre-qualification shall be 
required. 
 
(b) 
Eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification.  
 
(c) 
Invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
 
4. 
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form a 
joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a condition 
of award of the contract. 
 
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
23 
 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and local 
regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement procedures 
under the Loan or the Loan. 
 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national 
daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 
twenty-four (24) hours prior the deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are 
willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit responsible for 
procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of the 
contract. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity for registering. 
 
7. 
Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of Loan or bank 
guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids, and if bids are invited in two (2) envelopes, both envelopes (technical and price) 
shall be opened at the same time. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the 
bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder. 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, 
non-substantial deviations. 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s 
estimate and budget ceiling without the World Bank’s prior concurrence. 
24 
 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the World Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding shall not be 
carried out without the World Bank’s prior concurrence. 
25 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
April 1, 2019 
2.17 
October 1, 2019 
2.22 
April 1, 2020 
2.28 
October 1, 2020 
2.34 
April 1, 2021 
2.40 
October 1, 2021 
2.46 
April 1, 2022 
2.52 
October 1, 2022 
2.58 
April 1, 2023 
2.64 
October 1, 2023 
2.71 
April 1, 2024 
2.78 
October 1, 2024 
2.85 
April 1, 2025 
2.92 
October 1, 2025 
2.99 
April 1, 2026 
3.07 
October 1, 2026 
3.14 
April 1, 2027  
3.22 
October 1, 2027 
3.30 
April 1, 2028 
3.38 
October 1, 2028 
3.47 
April 1, 2029 
3.56 
October 1, 2029 
3.65 
April 1, 2030 
3.74 
October 1, 2030 
3.83 
April 1, 2031 
3.93 
26 
 
October 1, 2031 
4.02 
April 1, 2032 
4.12 
October 1, 2032 
4.23 
April 1, 2033 
4.33 
October 1, 2033 
4.44 
April 1, 2034 
4.71 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
27 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
28 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.   
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Bappenas” means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower’s 
National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means a Village, represented by its PNPM implementation team 
(tim pelaksanaan kegiatan) or other entity meeting the requirements set out in the 
Project Manual which is the beneficiary of a Kecamatan Grant and party to a 
Sub-project Agreement, and “Beneficiaries” means more than one Beneficiary. 
4. 
“Better Governance Action Plan” means a stand-alone chapter of the Project 
Manual designed to integrate the contents of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and 
to give effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions, measures and 
policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its forms 
under the Project, including enhanced information disclosure provisions, civil 
society oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with the risks 
associated with collusion, forgery and fraud, a complaint handling mechanism, 
and an appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies, and included as applicable 
in each Sub-project Agreement. 
 
5. 
“BPKP” means Badan Pengawas Keuangan dan Pembangunan, the Borrower’s 
Financial and Development Supervisory Agency, or any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
 “Bupati” means the head of a Kabupaten. 
 
7. 
“Camat” means the Kabupaten official at the Kecamatan level. 
 
8. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
10. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
29 
 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
11. 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Eligibility Criteria” means the criteria for a Kecamatan Grant, as set out in this 
Agreement, the Project Manual and any relevant Supplemental Manual 
 
13. 
“Environmental 
Management 
Framework” 
means 
the 
Environmental 
Management Framework, dated November 15, 2008,  and the technical 
guidelines for implementation thereof, adopted by the Borrower, giving details of 
a program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefits of 
the Project, eliminate, offset or mitigate any adverse environmental impacts, or 
reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, as such Environmental Management 
Framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement 
of the Bank. 
14. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means an Environmental 
Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower and consistent with 
the Environmental Management Framework, adopted for the purposes of a Sub-
project, and giving details of the agreed actions and policies designed to 
maximize the benefits of the Sub-project, eliminate or offset any adverse 
environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, along with 
the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions and 
policies. 
15. 
“Facilitator” means a technical or social specialist financed by the proceeds of the 
Loan and assigned to work with Villages to facilitate their participation in the 
Project, and “Facilitators” means more than one Facilitator. 
16. 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31.  
17. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
30 
 
18. 
 “Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that have a 
distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being 
disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any part 
thereof. 
 
19. 
“Isolated Vulnerable Peoples Framework” means the Isolated Vulnerable Peoples 
Framework acceptable to the Bank, dated November 15, 2009, and the technical 
guidelines for implementation thereof, adopted by the Borrower, and giving 
details of the rules, guidelines and procedures needed to: (a) involve Isolated 
Vulnerable People, through a process of informed consultation, in the design and 
implementation of Sub-projects in locations in which such people reside or make 
their living; and (b) design and implement measures to provide benefits which 
are socially and culturally acceptable to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset 
adverse impacts of Sub-projects, as such Isolated Vulnerable People 
Development Framework may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Bank. 
20. 
“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative sub-division of a Province.  
21. 
“Kapubaten Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team” means the local 
government-level working group established under Perpres 13/2009 in each 
Project Kabupaten, Project Kecamatan or Project Village, or any successor 
thereto. 
22. 
“Kabupaten Satker” means each project management unit established and 
operating at the Kabupaten level in accordance with Section 3 of Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
23. 
“Kecamatan” means a sub-district, an administrative sub-division of a 
Kabupaten. 
24. 
“Kecamatan Grant” means a grant made or to be made out of the proceeds of the 
Loan for the purposes of Part 1 of the Project and meeting the requirements set out 
in this Agreement, the Project Manual and any relevant Supplemental Manual, and 
“Kecamatan Grants” means more than one Kecamatan Grant. 
25. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” means a resettlement and 
rehabilitation action plan, acceptable to the Bank, and consistent with the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, adopted for the purposes of a Sub-
project, and giving details of the agreed provisions for compensation, 
rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons under the Sub-
31 
 
project, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to 
implement such agreed provisions. 
26. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework” means the Land Acquisition 
and Resettlement Framework acceptable to the Bank, dated November 15, 2009, 
and the technical guidelines for implementation thereof, adopted by the Borrower, 
and giving details of provisions for compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
assistance to Displaced Persons, as such Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Framework may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
27. 
“Local Government” means the government of a Project Kabupaten or a Project 
Kecamatan, and “Local Governments” means more than one Local Government. 
28. 
“Local Government Participation” means Local Government funding contributed 
to the total Sub-project cost for participating in the Project, to be made available 
by the government of the relevant Province or Project Kabupaten to a Project 
Kecamatan for a Sub-project in accordance with the formula set forth in the 
Project Manual. 
29. 
“Menko Kesra” means the Borrower’s Coordinating Ministry for Peoples’ 
Welfare, and any successor thereto. 
30. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any 
successor thereto. 
31. 
 “MOHA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs, or any successor 
thereto. 
32. 
“National Management Consultants” means the consultants, financed by the 
proceeds of the Loan, assigned at the central level to assist in Project 
implementation and monitoring. 
 
33. 
“Oversight Consultants” means consultant, financed by the proceeds of the Loan, 
assigned at the Province level to assist in Project implementation and monitoring. 
 
34. 
“P2SPP” means Progam Pengembangan Sistem Pembangunan Partisipatif, the 
PMD’s program for development of a system for participatory development. 
 
35. 
“Part” means a part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
32 
 
36. 
“Perpres” means a Peraturan Presiden, a presidential regulation. 
 
37. 
“Pilot and Special Program” means each Sub-project under Part 1(b) of the 
Project, which will provide planning, training and investment related to defined 
activities of particular local interest agreed in writing between the Borrower and 
the Bank, which may include: crisis response including responding to natural 
disasters; activities related to millennium development goal indicators for 
poverty, reduction, education and health (“PNPM Generasi”); support for 
community investments in environmental and natural resource management; and 
support local government community development projects run in tandem with 
the Project (“PNPM Integrasi/P2SPP”); and supporting community activities in 
national border areas, in each case subject to the terms and conditions set out in 
the Project Manual and any applicable Supplemental Manual. 
38. 
“PJOK” means a Project operations officer at the Province, Kabupaten or 
Kecamatan level established in accordance with paragraphs 2(b) and 3(b) of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and “PJOKs” means more than one 
PJOK. 
39. 
“PMD” means Pemberdayaan Masyarakat dan Desa, the Directorate General for 
Community Empowerment of MOHA, or any successor thereto. 
40. 
“PMD Secretariat” means the PMD Secretariat referred to in paragraph 1(c)(i) of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
41. 
“PNPM” means Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Mandiri, the 
Borrower’s National  Program for Community Empowerment, as described in 
Perpres 13/2009, as the same may be amended or updated from time to time. 
 
42. 
“PNPM Website” means the Project website maintained by PMD. 
 
43. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October  2006. 
44. 
 “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 24, 2010 (Letter No. 414.2/184/PNPM-MP/II/2010, and referred 
to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
33 
 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
45. 
“Project Kabupaten” means a Kabupaten which is selected by the Borrower for 
participation in the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Manual. 
46. 
“Project Kecamatan” means a Kecamatan located in a Project Kabupaten which 
is selected by the Borrower for participation in the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Manual. 
47. 
“Project Manual” means the Project Manual meeting the requirements of 
paragraph 1 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Project 
Manual may be amended or updated from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank and the Borrower, and includes, where applicable for a 
particular Sub-project, each relevant Supplemental Manual. 
48. 
“Project Village” means a Village selected by the Borrower for participation in 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Manual. 
49. 
“Province” means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower’s territory at 
the first level below the national level.  
50. 
“Provincial Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team” means the province-level 
working group established under Perpres 13/2009 in each Province, or any 
successor thereto. 
51. 
“Provincial Satker” means each Province level project management unit 
established and operating in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
52. 
“Rupiah” and “Rp” mean the currency of the Borrower.  
53. 
“Satker” means satuan kerja, a Project management unit, whether at central level 
or at the level of the Province or Kabupaten. 
 
54. 
“State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions” means the 
Borrower’s State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions, and any 
successor thereto. 
34 
 
55. 
“Sub-project“ means an activity qualifying for financing by a Kecamatan Grant 
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Project Manual and any 
relevant Supplemental Manual, and “Sub-projects” means more than one Sub-
project. 
56. 
“Sub-project Agreement” means an agreement between a PJOK and a UPK or 
between a UPK and a Beneficiary for purposes of a Sub-project, and referred to 
in Section C of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and “Sub-project 
Agreements” means more than one Sub-project Agreement. 
57. 
“Supplemental Manual” means each Supplemental Manual for a Pilot and 
Special Program and each natural disaster, emergency or catastrophic event 
under Part 1(a)(v) of the Project meeting the requirements of Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as each such Supplemental Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
58. 
“Tim Pengendali PNPM” means the national-level oversight body of PNPM, 
chaired by Menko Kesra (Tim Pengendali PNPM), with representatives of 
relevant ministries, including BAPPENAS, MOHA, Ministry of Finance, 
Ministry of Public Works, and State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged 
Regions, and any successor thereto. 
59. 
“UPK” means a Kecamatan management unit established and operating in a 
Kecamatan, and “UPKs” means more than one UPK. 
 
60. 
“Village” means an administrative subdivision of a Kecamatan. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Bank has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole 
or in part by the Bank or the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Bank or 
the Bank that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of 
the proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank.” 
35 
 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
