CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7837-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the São Paulo State Feeder Roads Project - 
Programa de Recuperação de Estradas Vicinais do Estado de São Paulo)
between 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 27, 2010  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 27, 2010, between STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
WHEREAS: (A) by an agreement dated August 24, 2009 between the Borrower 
and the Bank (the Original Loan Agreement), the Bank made a loan (Loan Nº 7688-BR) 
to the Borrower in an amount equal to one hundred sixty six million six hundred fifty 
thousand Dollars ($166,650,000) (the Original Loan) to assist in the financing of the São 
Paulo State Feeder Roads Project on terms and conditions set forth in the Original Loan 
Agreement; and 
 
(B) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the costs 
associated with anticipated cost overrun of works to be financed under the Original 
Project and scaled–up activities not covered by the Original Loan, as described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Project).  
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $326,775,000 (three hundred twenty 
six million seven hundred and seventy five thousand Dollars), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in the “Project”. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Borrower’s Transport Secretary.
- 2 -
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor,  through its  Secretariat of National Treasury, request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to 
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and of the 
State Investments Program. To this end, the Borrower shall, in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, cause the Project to be 
carried out by DER-SP. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that DER-
SP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement to an extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, after exchanging views 
with the Borrower, would materially and adversely affect the achievement of the 
Project objective. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and DER-
SP. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and DER-SP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
DER-SP in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
- 4 -
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on February 3, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda  
 
Av. Rangel Pestana, 300 – 5º andar  
 
São Paulo – SP, 01017-911 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3243-3296; 3104-5953 
 
With copies to: 
 
Secretaria dos Transportes 
 
Rua Iaiá Nº 126, 12º andar 
 
Itaim Bibi 
São Paulo – SP, 04542-906 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3702-8160 
 
Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem 
 
Av. do Estado, 777, 3º andar 
 
Ponte Pequena 
São Paulo – SP, 01107-000 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3311-1409 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 5 -
AGREED at São Paulo, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
By /s/ Alberto Goldman  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s paved 
municipal road network. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1 
(a) 
Feeder Roads Rehabilitation Works 
(i) 
Financing of anticipated cost overrun of works to be financed under the 
Original Project covering approximately 700km of eligible road sections; 
and 
 
(ii) 
Carrying out of rehabilitation works on approximately 1,200 km of 
additional specific sections of the Borrower’s municipal paved road 
network not included in the Original Project, that have been identified as 
eligible road sections under the 4 first phases of the Pró-Vicinais 
Program  including, inter alia: (A) rehabilitation of existing road bases 
and surfaces, as well as of bridges; (B) rehabilitation of shoulders to 
protect the shoulders’ surfaces from erosion and improve the driving 
conditions; (C) road safety improvements, including horizontal traffic 
signaling; and (D) rehabilitation and upgrading of drainage systems. 
 
(b) 
Project Management 
Consolidating DER-SP’s capacity to manage its road investment programs, 
including the Pró-Vicinais Program.  
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution and until completion of the 
Project, cause DER-SP to maintain a unit to be responsible for the 
implementation and coordination of the activities under the Project (the “DER-SP 
UCP”) and for carrying out all procurement, fiduciary, administrative and 
reporting responsibilities for all activities under the Project. The DER-SP UCP 
shall have a structure, functions and staff acceptable to the Bank, as defined in 
the Operational Manual, and shall be headed at all times by a coordinator with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement  
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into a 
subsidiary agreement with DER-SP, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank (the “Subsidiary Agreement”), which shall include, inter alia, the 
obligation of the Borrower to make the proceeds of the Loan available to DER-
SP and DER-SP’s obligation to: (a) carry out its responsibilities under the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, procurement, auditing, environmental and social 
standards and practices; and (b) carry out the Project in accordance with the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
C. 
Operational Manual 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the “Operational Manual”), which shall detail the 
procedures and guidelines for the execution, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including, inter alia:
- 8 -
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the technical, procurement, disbursement, financial 
management, social and environmental requirements thereof);  
 
(b) 
the eligibility criteria for civil works of the Project; 
 
(c) 
the Indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation; 
 
(d)  
the functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff composition of the 
DER-SP UCP; and 
 
(e) 
the 
Updated 
Environmental 
Assessment 
and 
the 
Involuntary 
Resettlement Framework.  
 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In case of any conflict or inconsistency between the 
terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause the Project to be carried out, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
E. 
Environmental and Social Provisions 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall carry out and shall cause DER-SP to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the Updated 
Environmental Assessment (including provisions regarding chance finding and 
protection of cultural property) and the Involuntary Resettlement Framework, 
when applicable.  
 
2.  
Prior to carrying out any civil works under the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
DER-SP to submit to the Bank evidence that environmental and social impacts 
have been identified and planned mitigation measures defined, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Updated Environmental Assessment and the 
Involuntary Resettlement Framework, as applicable. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to ensure that any contractors that will carry 
out civil works under the Project shall perform their work in accordance with the 
technical and environmental practices for the Project, as set forth in the Updated 
Environmental Assessment. 
 
- 9 -
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Indicators included in the 
Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than two months after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to, at the earliest of: (a) September 30, 2011; 
or (b) the point when fifty percent (50%) of the Loan amount has been disbursed, 
carry out a review with the Bank on the overall progress in the execution of the 
Project, and set out the measures and take any remedial action as a result of such 
review, as agreed with the Bank. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of 
the Project Reports, not later than two months after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to have the Project’s Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Works, Goods and Non-consultant Services.   All works, goods and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
- 10 -
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-consultant 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, works, goods and non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-consultant 
services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for works, goods and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used.  
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, including in respect of works, goods and non-
consultant services, concorrência (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 8666 of 
June 21, 1993) including, in respect of goods and non-consulting services, 
pregão eletrônico (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 10520 of July 17, 2002), 
subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding 
documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b) Shopping, including in respect of goods and non-consulting services pregão 
eletrônico (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 10520 of July 17, 2002) subject 
to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall 
be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c) Direct contracting. 
- 11 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS)  
(b) Least-Cost Selection (LCS) 
(c) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2. and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Single-Source Selection (SSS) 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000,000 or more; (b) each contract for 
goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or 
more; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (d) all contracts subject to retroactive financing.  All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
- 12 -
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Works, Goods, Non-
consultant  services 
and Consultant services 
for Part 1 of the Project 
 
325,958,062.50 
 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
816,937.50 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 
(b) 
of 
the 
General 
Conditions 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of the this 
Agreement  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
326,775,000.00 
 
For purposes of this table, the term “Non-consultant services” means reasonable 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower for services in the Project related, inter alia, to 
traffic counting services. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $114,371,250 equivalent may be made 
for payments made within one year prior to this date, for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning December 15, 2015  
 
through June 15, 2040 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
- 14 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 15 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in Section III of this 
Appendix. 
 
2. “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
3. “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and in May 2010. 
 
4. “DER-SP” means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem, the Borrower’s road 
administration department from the Borrower’s Secretariat of Transport (Secretaria 
dos Transportes do Estado de Sao Paulo), responsible for managing the Borrower’s 
road network, regulated by the Borrower’s Decree Nº 26673 of January 28, 1987 and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette N° 19, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, or its successor or successors thereto. 
 
5. “DER-SP UCP” means Unidade de Coordenação do Programa, the unit referred to 
in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, established pursuant to the 
Portaria SUP/DER Nº 33, dated April 2, 2008, and published in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette Nº 118, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
6. “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
7. “Indicators” means the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project, agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
8. “Involuntary Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s document dated 
February 2008, specifying the population resettlement policies, planning principles, 
institutional arrangements, procurement arrangements and design criteria that shall 
apply to the preparation and carrying out of the action plans for the resettlement of 
population under the Project. 
 
9. “Original Loan” means the loan amount referred to in the Whereas clause (A) of this 
Agreement. 
 
- 16 -
10. “Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement referred to in the Whereas 
clause (A) of this Agreement. 
 
11. “Original Project” means the project set forth in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan 
Agreement.  
 
12. “Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, prepared for the Original Project and updated for this Project, dated 
June 11, 2010, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank. 
13. “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 
and in May 2010. 
 
14. “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
December 5, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. “Pro-Vicinais Program” means Programa de Pavimentação e Recuperação de 
Estradas Vicinais do Estado de São Paulo, the Borrower’s municipal paved road 
program created in 2007 for the rehabilitation of approximately 12,000 km of the 
Borrower’s municipal paved road network.  
 
16. “State Investments Program”, means the Borrower’s investments included under the 
2008-2011 PPA (Plano Plurianual para o período 2008-2011), the Borrower’s 
multiyear expenditure program for 2008-2011.  
 
17. “Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to DER-SP. 
 
18. “Updated Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s assessment, dated 
February, 2008, prepared for the Original Project and updated as of September, 2009, 
for this Project, of the Project environmental impacts, which identifies the existing 
environmental conditions and the potential direct and indirect environmental impacts 
from the carrying out of the Project, and recommends mitigation measures for each 
negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified positive 
impact. 
 
- 17 -
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, collusive or 
obstructive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Bank or the Association.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
- 18 -
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III.
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
- 19 -
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
