CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7909-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Henan Ecological Livestock Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 26, 2010  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 26, 2010, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eighty million Dollars 
($80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by Henan in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
3
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 
5.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve environmental health management 
practices on targeted livestock farms in the Yellow River Belt in Henan Province of the 
Borrower. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Institutional Strengthening, Training and Technical Support 
 
1. 
Improving the technical understanding and institutional management capacity 
 
at the Province, municipal and county levels of on-farm management of 
 
livestock waste processes through, inter alia, strengthening of public 
 
institutions, provision of training, technical assistance and management 
 
support to livestock farms in the areas of animal health and waste management, 
 
carrying out awareness raising activities and establishment of a Geographic 
 
Information System (GIS). 
 
Part B: Environmental Management in Existing and New Farms and Livestock 
 
Parks 
 
1. 
Constructing and equipping facilities in small scale and medium size 
 
Beneficiary Farms/parks for waste minimization, animal health, waste 
 
management and waste treatment, and for demonstrating ecologically 
 
standardized livestock farming in selected Beneficiary Farms/parks, 
 
including provision of civil works, equipment and technical assistance for 
 
construction design and supervision. 
 
Part C: Project Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
1. 
Strengthening institutional capacity at the Province, municipal and county 
 
levels to implement the Project and to establish and implement an effective 
 
monitoring and evaluation system through, inter alia, provision of equipment, 
 
materials, vehicles, training and technical assistance, including establishment 
 
of a computerized Management Information System (MIS). 
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Institutional 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to Henan the proceeds of the Loan on the 
following principal terms in order to enable Henan to carry out the Project: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.  
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the principal amount so 
made available; (B) an amount equal to the fee paid pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this Agreement; and (C) the amount of the Premium paid 
pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) 
days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2016. 
 
6
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Progress Report not later than sixty 
(60) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
7
2. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 4 below, works costing less than US$20,000,000 equivalent per 
contract and goods costing less than US$1,000,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded under NCB procedures, subject to the 
additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below.  
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for procuring goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except works contracts 
that are estimated to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent but less than 
US$2,000,000 equivalent each or goods contracts that are estimated to 
cost more than US$100,000 equivalent but less than $300,000 equivalent 
each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to 
obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be 
given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper 
and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the employer in case of breach of contract by the contractor, 
and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such security. In place of a bid security, the bidding documents may 
requires that a bidder submit with its bid a signed declaration that, if the 
bidder withdraws its bid during the bid validity period or, if awarded the 
contract, the bidder fails to sign the contract or submit any required 
performance security before the deadline required in the bidding 
documents, the bidder will be suspended for a period of two years from 
being awarded any contract with the Borrower or Henan, including any 
of their departments, agencies or administrative units. 
 
8
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Borrower or Henan. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods and civil works if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) 
operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the 
agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take 
place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national press or provincial press (based on the criteria provided in 
clause (i) of this paragraph 3) or official gazette or free and open access 
website and shall identify: (a) the name of each bidder who submitted a 
9
bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) the name and evaluated 
price of each evaluated bid; (d) the name of bidders who bids were 
rejected and the reasons for their rejection; and (e) the name and offered 
prices of the winning bidder as well as the duration and summary scope 
of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
Henan shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
4. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and 
works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Shopping 
(b)  
Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Individual Consultants 
(d)  
Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1,000,000 or 
more; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 
or more; (c) the first civil works contract procured through Shopping in a county 
10
included in the Project Area carried out by a Beneficiary Farm/park; (d) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$100,000 or more; (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more; 
and (f) each contract for consultants’ services procured on a Single Source 
Selection basis.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures 
inclusive of taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars) 
% of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
1.  Sub-financing for 
Farm/park package 
74,162,500 
 
51% of Farm/park  
Package cost 
2.  Goods  
1,846,500 
100% 
3.  Consultants’ services, 
training and study tours  
3,791,000 
100% 
4.    Front-end Fee 
200,000 
Amount payable pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
5.   Premium on Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL  
80,000,000 
 
11
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals up to an amount not to exceed US$8,000,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2010 for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals under a Sub-financing to finance goods, works and services 
required for a Farm/park Package shall be made in accordance with the 
procedures and arrangements set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.  
 
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
12
ANNEX 
 
Disbursement Procedures in respect of Sub-financing for Farm/park Package 
The procedures and arrangements for withdrawing the proceeds of the Loan for providing 
Sub-financing to Beneficiary Farm/parks for carrying out Farm/park Packages are set out 
below: 
 
1. 
A Sub-financing shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan 
provided it is made by Henan to a Beneficiary Farm/park pursuant to a Farm 
Implementation Agreement for carrying out activities under Part B.1 of the 
Project included in a Farm/park Package in accordance with the provisions of the 
Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
 
2. 
A Sub-financing to a Beneficiary Farm/park shall not exceed 51% of the cost of a 
Farm/park Package calculated as set out in Annex 2 to the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement.  
 
3. 
An initial advance payment from a Sub-financing to a Beneficiary Farm/park 
may be made in an amount not exceeding thirty percent (30%) of the amount of 
the Sub-financing referred to in paragraph 2 above upon the signing of the Farm 
Implementation Agreement by Henan and said Beneficiary Farm/park as set out 
in Annex 2 to the Schedule to the Project Agreement and the receipt by the Bank 
of a request for said advance payment from the Borrower together with a 
certificate from Henan in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank showing 
that the detailed design of the Farm/park Package: (a) conforms to the concept 
model approved by the Bank and meets the requirements set out in the Farm 
Implementation Agreement; (b) has been prepared by a qualified engineer; and 
(c) environmental clearance has been provided by the appropriate authorities of 
Henan.  
 
4. 
The provision of the initial advance payment may be suspended or terminated, 
and any advance amount may be required to be refunded, if the activities under 
the Farm/park Package are not initiated or carried out in a timely manner or in 
accordance with the provisions of the Farm Implementation Agreement.  
 
5. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of a Sub-financing, other than for the initial 
payment referred to in paragraph 3 above, shall be made upon receipt by the 
Bank from Henan of verification certificates together with other supporting 
documents, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, evidencing eligible 
expenditures in respects of the Farm/park Package, in accordance with the 
following two stage process: 
 
13
(a) 
the first stage verification shall certify that: (i) the detailed design of the 
Farm/park Package conforms to the concept models approved by the 
Bank and meets the requirements set out in the Farm Implementation 
Agreement; (ii) the design of said Package has been prepared by a 
qualified engineer; (iii) environmental clearance for said Package has 
been provided by the appropriate authorities of Henan; (iv) the  
procurement of all goods and works to be financed by the Sub-financing 
for the Farm/park Package has been carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;  
(v) the construction under the Farm/park Package has been completed 
according to its detailed design; (vi) all the other old (or new) 
infrastructure detailed in the farm layout design is in place; and  
(vii) goods that have to be physically installed together with the 
infrastructure have been procured, delivered to the farm and installed. 
Upon completion of the first stage verification, seventy percent (70%) of 
the Sub-financing, based on the actual eligible expenditure incurred, after 
deducting the initial advance, if any, may be disbursed; and 
 
(b) 
the second stage verification shall certify that satisfactory training on the 
Farm Management Manual has been taken by the staff of the Beneficiary 
Farm/park, the remaining goods required for the Farm/park Package 
pursuant to its detailed design have been delivered, and the Farm/park 
Package has been completed in accordance with said design. Upon 
completion of the second stage verification, the remaining amount of the 
Sub-financing, based on the actual eligible expenditure incurred, may be 
disbursed. 
 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
Each March 15 and September 15, 
beginning September 15, 2015 through 
March 15, 2040  
 
 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
15
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
16
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Animal Husbandry Bureau” and the acronym “AHB” mean the Animal 
Husbandry Bureau of Henan at the provincial, municipal and county levels. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Beneficiary Farm/park” means a farm/park established in accordance with the 
relevant laws and regulations of the Borrower and Henan (as hereinafter defined) 
and located in the Project Area (as hereinafter defined) in Henan selected in 
accordance with eligibility criteria referred to in Section A.1 of Annex 2 to the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for receiving a Sub-
financing (as hereinafter defined) to carry out a Farm/park Package (as 
hereinafter defined) pursuant to a Farm Implementation Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined). 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Assessment” and the acronym “EA” mean the document dated 
February, 2010 adopted by Henan, setting forth, inter alia, the assessment of 
environmental impacts of the Project, recommendations for mitigation of adverse 
impacts and enhancement of positive impacts based on such assessment, and the 
guidelines 
for 
environmental 
screening 
and 
monitoring 
of 
Project 
implementation, and includes all schedules and annexes thereto, as said EA may 
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.  
 
8. 
“Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan” and the acronym “EMMP” 
mean the environmental management and monitoring plan adopted by Henan 
17
dated February, 2010 for purposes of implementing the Project pursuant to the 
findings and recommendations of the Environmental Assessment, and includes 
all schedules and annexes thereto, as said EMMP may be amended from time to 
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
9. 
“Farm Implementation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between Henan and a Beneficiary Farm/park for the purpose of providing a Sub-
financing to said Beneficiary Farm/park for carrying out a Farm/park Package (as 
hereinafter defined) and which shall include terms and conditions specified in the 
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and those in Section B of Annex 2 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
10. 
“Farm Management Manual” means the manual, to be used by a Beneficiary 
Farm/park in connection with a Farm/park package, providing practical on-farm 
guidance for the management of the farms/parks, including production and waste 
management methods, and adopted by Henan and furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to paragraph 9 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and 
includes all schedules and annexes thereto, as said manual may be amended from 
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
11. 
“Farm/park Package” means the package of activities to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary Farm/park under Part B.1 of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sub-financing made available pursuant to a Farm Implementation Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Financial Bureau” and the acronym “FB” mean the Department of Finance of 
Henan. 
 
13. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the Financial Management Manual 
dated February 2010 adopted by Henan and which sets out the policies and 
procedures for establishing and maintaining a financial management system to be 
implemented by Henan in the carrying out of the Project, and includes all 
schedules and annexes thereto, as said manual may be amended from time to 
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008).  
 
15. 
“Henan” means the Borrower’s Province of Henan, and any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“Local Project Leading Group” and the acronym “LPLG” mean a group 
established by a municipality or a county included in the Project Area and to be 
maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement for the purposes therein referred to.  
 
18
17. 
“Local Project Management Office” and the acronym “LPMO” mean an office 
established by a municipality or a county included in the Project Area and to be 
maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(d) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement for the purposes therein referred to.  
 
18. 
“Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition” means the policy 
framework, dated September 2009, adopted by Henan, which sets out the policies 
and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of Resettlement 
Action Plans (as hereinafter defined) whenever required during the 
implementation of the Project, and includes all schedules and annexes thereto, as 
said policy framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank.  
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Procurement Plan for the Project, adopted by   
Henan dated March, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.   
 
21. 
“Project Area” means the area comprising the Counties, Districts or Cities in the 
Municipalities in Henan selected for participation in the Project as set out in 
Section IV and Annex 3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
22. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Henan, and any 
successor thereto, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Henan. 
 
24. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual dated February 2010 
adopted by Henan, which includes, inter alia, the: (i) Project implementation 
arrangements, including a draft Farm Implementation Agreement; (ii) criteria and 
procedures for the eligibility and appraisal of Beneficiary Farm/parks under the 
Project; (iii) criteria, procedures and arrangements to finance the various 
activities under the Project; (iv) design and construction arrangements, including 
supervision, completion and acceptance procedures for reimbursement purposes; 
(v) procurement procedures to be applied pursuant to Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and standard procurement documentation; (vi) reporting 
requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures; (vii) the 
Environmental Assessment; (viii) the Financial Management Manual; (ix) the 
Project performance indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the Schedule to the Project 
19
Agreement; (x) the monitoring and evaluation framework; (xi) the Policy 
Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition; (xii) the Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan; and (xiii) the Farm Management Manual once 
such manual has been adopted as referred to in Section I.9 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, and includes all schedules and annexes thereto, as said 
Project Implementation Manual may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Bank. 
 
25. 
“Provincial Project Leading Group” and the acronym “PPLG” mean the group 
established by Henan, and to be maintained according to the provisions of 
paragraph 1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Provincial Project Management Office” and the acronym “PPMO” mean the 
office established within the Animal Husbandry Bureau of Henan and to be 
maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
27. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” means the resettlement 
action plan that may need to be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity 
pursuant to paragraph 4(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, 
and includes all schedules and annexes thereto, as said Plan may be amended 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
28. 
“Sub-financing” means a grant to be made by Henan out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to a Beneficiary Farm/park under a Farm Implementation Agreement for 
carrying out activities under Part B.1 of the Project included in a Farm/park 
Package, which grant shall be made, inter alia, in accordance with the provisions 
set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.6 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
