 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7929-CN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Taiyuan Urban Transport Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated November 2, 2010 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
November 
2, 
2010, 
between 
the 
PEOPLE’S  
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Shanxi) to carry 
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
  
The objective of the project is to improve mobility on selected transport corridors of the 
city center of Taiyuan Municipality in Shanxi Province of the Borrower in a safe and 
efficient manner. 
 
Part 1: Road Infrastructure  
 
 
Construction of: (a) the Taihang road, a north-south arterial at the east end of 
Taiyuancity, including bridges, interchanges and overpasses; and (b) the 
extension of the Nanzhonghuan road providing access to a proposed railway 
station in the south.    
 
Part 2: Public Transport  
 
1.  
Development of a bus priority scheme on Xinjian street of Taiyuan city, 
including lanes for buses and associated infrastructure.  
 
2.  
Construction of: (a) bus depots in Nanhan and Beiying localities in Taiyuan city; 
and (b) bus terminals in Yingxin Zoo, and Beiyan localities in Taiyuan city. 
 
3.  
Design and installation of an automated vehicle location and Bus Dispatching 
System. 
 
Part 3: Traffic Safety and Management  
 
Carrying out of a program on selected main transport corridors in Taiyuan city to 
improve the safety and efficiency of traffic movement for all road users 
consisting of: (i) construction of pedestrian facilities; (ii) construction of bicycle 
facilities; (iii) carrying out of channelization at selected junctions;  
(iv) installation of traffic signs and markers; (v) acquisition and installation of 
equipment for traffic management; and (vi) carrying out road safety measures, 
including an integrated performance-based program over a selected portion of 
Jiefang road. 
 
Part 4: Institutional Development 
 
Carrying out a program for strengthening the capacity of Taiyuan municipality to 
implement the Project and to undertake additional transport infrastructure 
investments, including carrying out of studies, formulating appropriate policies, 
and provision of equipment, training, and technical assistance. 
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangement; Institutional and Other Arrangements 
 
A. 
Financing Arrangement 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to Shanxi the proceeds of the Loan under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the following:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars. 
 
(b) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the principal amount so 
made available; (B) the amount of the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement; and (C) the amount of the Premium paid pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Shanxi: (a) to manage, operate, monitor, transfer and 
reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to paragraph 1 
above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) to take, all required actions, including provision of timely consents and 
approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds 
and the implementation of the Project and, to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its undertakings under this Agreement; and (c) to maintain all relevant 
records and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly 
such documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested 
by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.   
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the six (6) months period of each 
Project Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
- 8 - 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.   
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 
below, works costing less than $20,000,000 equivalent per contract and goods 
costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded under NCB procedures, subject to the additional provisions 
provided in paragraph 3 below.  
 
3.  
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on 
Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order 
No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, 
with the following clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except for civil works 
contracts that are estimated cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each and 
for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily 
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of  
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for submission of 
bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the 
deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
 
- 9 - 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the Borrower or Shanxi, as the case may be, in case of breach 
of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Borrower or Shanxi, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (a) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (b) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they can 
establish that they: (a) are legally and financially autonomous;  
 
- 10 - 
(b) operate under commercial law; and (c) are not a dependent agency of 
the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take 
place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national press or provincial press (as provided under 3(i) above) or 
official gazette or  a free and open access website and shall identify: 
(a) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read 
out at bid opening; (c) the name and evaluated price of each evaluated 
bid; (d) the name of bidders whose bids were rejected and the reasons for 
their rejection; and (e) the name and offered price of the winning bidder, 
as well as the duration and summary scope of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
Shanxi shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
4. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International and National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.   
 
 
- 11 - 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality based selection 
(b) 
Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(c) 
Single source selection 
(d) 
Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) all contracts 
for goods and civil works procured through International Competitive Bidding 
regardless of the contract value; (b) each contract for civil works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (c) all contracts for goods procured 
through National Competitive Bidding estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; (d) the first contract for each procurement method regardless 
of the contract value; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for firms and $50,000 or more for 
individual consultants.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
terms of reference for each consultant procured under contracts for consultants’ 
services shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, 
inclusive of taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
- 12 - 
      
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (USD) 
Percentage of expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Civil Works 
123,035,000 
80% 
(2) Goods, Consultants’ 
services and training 
26,590,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(4)  Premium on Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL 
150,000,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 1, 2010 for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
beginning November 15, 2015 through 
May 15, 2035 
2.5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
 
- 14 - 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated April 28, 2010 duly 
adopted by Shanxi and Taiyuan Municipality, which Plan sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project and 
related facilities, including access roads, construction camps, borrow pits, spoil 
disposal sites, resettlement sites, quarries and areas of temporary impact during 
construction, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with 
the prior agreement of the Bank.   
 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity (Shanxi) beginning on January 1 of a year and ending on  
December 31 of the same year. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
8. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto. 
 
 
- 16 - 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated April, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
11. 
“Project Financial Manual” means the manual dated April 28, 2010 adopted by 
Shanxi and Taiyuan Municipality, which sets out the financial management 
policies and procedures to be followed in respect of Project implementation and 
financial management reports. 
 
12. 
“Project Implementing Entity” and the acronym “PIE” means Shanxi. 
 
13. 
“Project Leading Group” means the group established by Taiyuan Municipality, 
headed by the-Mayor of Taiyuan Municipality and composed of representatives 
of several Taiyuan Municipality agencies, for the purpose of providing overall 
leadership, policy guidance and institutional coordination in Project preparation 
and implementation at the municipal level, and any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“Provincial Project Leading Group” means the group established by Shanxi for 
the purpose of providing overall leadership, policy guidance, supervision and 
institutional coordination in Project preparation and implementation, and any 
successor thereto.   
 
15. 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated April 28, 2010 duly adopted 
by Shanxi and Taiyuan Municipality and to be implemented  by it for purposes of 
carrying out the Project, which plan sets out, inter alia: (a) the principles and 
procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the Project and related 
facilities, including access roads, construction camps, borrow pits, spoil disposal 
sites, resettlement sites and quarries; (b) actions and measures for the payment of 
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; 
and (c) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to  
said plan.   
 
16. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework dated April 28, 2010 duly 
adopted by Shanxi and Taiyuan Municipality and to be implemented by it for 
purposes of carrying out the Project and which sets out, inter alia: (a) a 
framework with criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions 
and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts 
resulting from the implementation of activities under the Project and the RAP in 
 
- 17 - 
locations that are not directly identified in the RAP, including identifying land or 
other productive assets that may be required for said activities, and payment of 
compensation to, and the resettlement and rehabilitation of, Displaced Persons 
affected by said activities; and (b) reporting and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
17. 
“Shanxi” means the Borrower’s Shanxi Province and any successor thereto, also 
referred to as Project Implementing Entity.    
 
18. 
“Taiyuan Municipality” means the Taiyuan Municipality of Shanxi, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
19. 
“TMUCDD” means the Taiyuan Municipal Urban Construction Development 
Department established by Taiyuan Municipality under the Taiyuan Municipal 
Housing, Rural and Urban Construction Commission. 
 
20. 
“TPMO” means the Leading Group Office of the Taiyuan Municipal World Bank 
Loan Urban Transport Project Office established by Taiyuan Municipality for 
purposes of supervising the implementation of the Project at the municipal level. 
 
21. 
“TPTGC” means the Taiyuan Public Transport Group Company established and 
wholly owned by Taiyuan Municipality on January 28, 2009 under business 
license No. 1401001000033. 
 
22. 
“TTPB” means the Taiyuan Traffic Police Brigade under the Taiyuan Public 
Security Bureau of Taiyuan Municipality. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . . 
 
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
 
- 18 - 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 
