CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7912-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao 
ARMM Social Fund Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 31, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 31, 2010, between the REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES 
(“the 
Borrower”) 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“the Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement or, if not otherwise defined, in the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000) 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“the Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“the Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the ARMM Regional Government to carry out the 
Project through the PMO in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Subsidiary Agreement. 
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
(i) the Subsidiary Agreement; or (ii) the Operations Manual have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the ARMM RG to perform any of 
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower or the ARMM RG has failed to perform any of their 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it 
improbable that the ARMM RG will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
has occurred and has continued for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Finance 
Department of Finance Building 
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex 
Roxas Blvd. 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines 
 
Telephone:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(63-2) 523-9223  
 
 
(63-2) 523-9216 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C.  64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By /s/ Margarito Teves 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1  
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to reduce poverty and to support 
mechanisms for the promotion of a peaceful and safe environment in the conflict-affected 
areas of the ARMM and in particular to: (a) improve access to social and economic 
infrastructure and livelihood opportunities; (b) strengthen social cohesion and 
partnerships between and within targeted communities; and (c) improve local governance 
and institutional capacities for implementation in the ARMM Region, with a focus on 
improved participation, transparency and accountability in the allocation and 
management of public resources by the participating communities, local government 
units and the ARMM RG. 
 
The Project, comprising Parts A and C of the Original Project with the 
modifications set forth below, consists of the following parts: 
PART A: Community Development Assistance
Development and implementation of a community development program 
through: (i) Provision of Sub-grants to community groups and LGUs for the construction, 
rehabilitation and improvement of community-prioritized small scale social and 
economic infrastructures, including rural water supply and sanitation systems, small scale 
irrigation schemes, rainwater tanks, Barangay health stations, communal schools, 
community learning centers, post-harvest facilities, farm-to-market and Barangay roads, 
timber ports, bridges and damaged houses; (ii) provision of community-oriented training 
and training, for community development groups and service providers to manage and 
improve access to community services; and (iii) capacity building through provision of 
technical and financial assistance to women’s groups and out-of-school youth groups 
selected under criteria defined in the Operations Manual for improving food security and 
household incomes. 
PART C: Institutional Strengthening and Governance
1. 
Carrying out of information, education and communication activities to support 
institutional strengthening and governance at ARMM and LGU levels and to develop 
public awareness on the Project development objectives and processes, and provision of 
technical assistance to the Provinces and Municipalities in financial management and 
procurement and participatory multi-year planning. 
7
2. 
Strengthening of ARMM and LGUs capacity for Project and Sub-project 
implementation, including staff training and development of specific operational and 
administrative guidelines. 
3. 
Project management and implementation support, including audits of Project 
accounts and strengthening of the operational, managerial and administrative capacity of 
the ARMM Regional Government, LGUs, community groups and non-governmental 
organizations involved in Project and Sub-project implementation, through the provision 
of training, consultants’ services and equipment. 
8
SCHEDULE 2  
Project Execution 
Section I 
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the ARMM RG under an agreement (“the Subsidiary 
Agreement”) between the Borrower and the ARMM RG, under terms and conditions 
approved by the Bank, including that the ARMM RG shall:
(a) 
maintain throughout the period of implementation of the Project a Project 
Management Office, headed by a Project manager selected and hired in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2, 
responsible for the carrying out of the Project and for the final review 
and endorsement of Sub-project approvals prior to allocation of the Sub-
grants; 
(b) 
without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (c) below carry on its 
operations and conduct its affairs at all times with due diligence and 
efficiency, in accordance with appropriate administrative, managerial, 
economic, and financial practices, under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management personnel assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; 
(c) 
adopt, and thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, an 
Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter 
alia: 
(i) 
a description of the ARMM RG’s administrative and 
financial procedures, including its accounting, financial 
reporting and auditing procedures for the Project; 
(ii) 
eligibility criteria and operational procedures for the 
selection of Beneficiaries, the appraisal, approval and 
financing criteria for Sub-projects including those terms and 
conditions referred to in Part B of this Schedule 2; 
(iii) 
procedures for procurement, disbursement, supervision, 
monitoring and impact evaluation and reporting in respect 
9
of Sub-projects consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement;  
(iv) 
a sample Sub-project Agreement; 
(v) 
the Environmental Framework; 
(vi) 
the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Displaced Person’s Framework;  
(vii) 
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and 
(viii) cost-sharing arrangements between the ARMM RG and the 
Beneficiaries; 
(d) 
not amend, delete, suspend or abrogate or waive any provision of the 
Operations Manual without the prior approval of the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
(e) 
ensure that proposals for Sub-projects shall be approved only if: (i) an 
analysis of the environmental impacts of such Sub-project has been 
undertaken pursuant to the Environmental Framework; and (ii) if 
applicable, an environmental impact assessment or other environmental 
requirements provided for under the laws of the Borrower, satisfactory to 
the Bank, has been undertaken, and mitigation measures designed on the 
basis of environmental standards as set forth in the Environmental 
Framework and acceptable to the Bank have been adopted by the 
proposed Beneficiary; 
(f) 
ensure that the proposal for each Sub-project incorporates where 
applicable, a Resettlement Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in 
accordance with the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation 
of Displaced Person’s Framework; 
(g) 
ensure that the proposal for each Sub-project involving communities 
with 
Indigenous 
Peoples 
incorporates 
an 
Indigenous 
Peoples 
Development Plan satisfactory to the Bank for the informed participation 
of Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of such Sub-
project, in accordance with the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework;  
10 
 
(h) 
ensure that the Project, including each Sub-project, is carried out in 
accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
(i) 
comply, and ensure that the Beneficiary for each Sub-project shall 
comply with the provisions of the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services set forth in Section III of this Schedule 2; 
(j) 
enter into a Sub-grant Agreement with the relevant Beneficiary in regard 
to each Sub-project approved for financing through a Sub-grant, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include those 
set forth in Part B of this Schedule 2; and not make available the 
proceeds of a Sub-grant for financing a Sub-project until the 
corresponding Sub-grant Agreement has been entered into with the 
relevant Beneficiary; 
(k) 
exercise its rights under each Sub-grant Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the ARMM RG, the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the relevant Sub-grant, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the ARMM RG shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such Sub-grant Agreement or any provision thereof; 
(l) 
by October 1 of each year, starting October 1, 2010, adopt an annual 
work plan, including training and technical assistance program, and 
budget and furnish said plan to the Bank for its review and comments 
and, thereafter, implement said plan taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon, if any; 
(m) 
(i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth 
in the Annex  to  this Schedule 2, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project reports of such scope, detail 
and frequency as the Borrower and the Bank shall request, on the basis of 
the indicators set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2; 
(n) 
have its financial statements audited  by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank. 
(o) 
Each audit of the financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) 
fiscal year of the ARMM RG. The audited financial statements for each 
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months 
after the end of such period. 
11 
 
(p) 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) by January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing on 
January 31 2011, a semi-annual report; and (ii) on or about July 31, 2012 
a mid-term report; each such report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to the preceding 
paragraph on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
including on the implementation of Sub-projects and the evaluation of 
the impact thereof, during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; 
(q) 
review with the Borrower and the Bank, by October 15, 2012, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in the preceding 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Borrower and Bank’s views on the matter; and 
(r) 
assist the Borrower in preparing the plan referred to in Section 3.03(a) of 
the Original Loan Agreement for the continued achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; and 
(s) 
appoint by July 15, 2010 in accordance with the procurement provisions 
set out in Section III of this Schedule 2, an internal monitor within the 
PMO to monitor compliance with the Sub-grant Agreement, the use of 
funds for Sub-projects and the financial management aspects thereof. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
3. 
The Borrower, through the PMO, shall, not later than January 31 and July 31 in 
each year, commencing July 31, 2011, and until July 31, 2013, carry out spot checks 
under terms of reference and with a minimum coverage satisfactory to the Bank, to verify 
that Beneficiaries meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Operations Manual. 
4. 
The Borrower, through the PMO, shall, by January 31, 2011, appoint an 
independent third party in accordance with the procurement provisions set out in Section 
III of this Schedule, to conduct the spot checks referred to in the preceding paragraph.
12 
 
B. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-projects 
1. 
The amount of the Sub-grant shall not exceed eighty-five per cent (85%) of the 
estimated aggregate costs of Sub-projects.  The Beneficiaries of such Sub-project shall be 
required to contribute at least fifteen percent (15%) of the total Sub-project costs, in 
material or cash or in services in the design, implementation, operation, maintenance and 
supervision of the Sub-project. 
2. 
Each Beneficiary shall undertake in respect of its respective Sub-project to: 
(a) 
implement such Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and engineering 
practices and sound environmental and social standards pursuant to the Sub-project 
proposal approved by the ARMM RG; 
(b) 
ensure that goods, works and consultants’ services financed out of the 
Sub-grant shall be procured in accordance with the procurement provisions set out in 
Section III of this Schedule 2; 
(c) 
ensure that all goods and services financed under the Sub-grant shall be 
used exclusively for the purposes of such Sub-project;  
(d) 
furnish to the ARMM RG and the Bank any relevant documents, records 
and reports in respect of such Sub-project, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request; 
(e) 
furnish the ARMM RG and the Bank an operation and maintenance plan 
satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure the sustainability of such Sub-project, in accordance 
with the guidelines and standards set forth in the Operations Manual, and thereafter, carry 
out, or cause to be carried out, such plan satisfactory to the ARMM RG and the Bank; 
and  
(f) 
where applicable, carry out, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank:                   
(i) mitigation measures designed in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
Framework; (ii) a plan for the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons in accordance with the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Displaced Person’s Framework; and (iii) a plan acceptable to the Bank for the informed 
participation of Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of the Sub-project 
in accordance with the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework. 
3. 
The ARMM RG shall have the right: 
13 
 
(a) 
to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank and/or the Borrower, any 
facilities or sites included in a  Sub-project, and to examine the goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Sub-grant, and records and documents relevant to the performance of the 
obligations of the Beneficiary under the Sub-project Agreement; 
(b) 
to obtain all such information and data as the ARMM RG, the Borrower 
or the Bank may reasonably request relating to the carrying out of a Sub-project, to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the respective Beneficiary, and to 
the benefits derived from such sub-project; and 
(c) 
to suspend the rights of a Beneficiary upon failure by such Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under its Sub-grant Agreement. 
4. 
The ARMM RG, through the PMO, shall exercise its rights under each Sub-grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
ARMM RG shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any 
of its provisions. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Other Undertakings 
The ARMM RG, through the PMO, shall, no later than six (6) months after the 
Effective Date, carry out an assessment under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank 
and by an independent consultant appointed in accordance with Section III of this 
Schedule 2 of the risks to Project implementation or to achievement of the objectives of 
the Project in Maguindanao, and promptly thereafter implement the recommendations 
acceptable to the Bank of such assessment. 
Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the PMO, shall monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule 2.  Each Project Report shall 
14 
 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the PMO, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through the PMO, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project 
Report not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower through the PMO, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
15 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Shopping 
(b) Community Participation 
(c) Procurement of Small Works 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(b) Single Source Selection 
 
(c) Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
16 
 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Sub-grants under Part A of 
the Project, and goods, training 
and workshops, consultant 
services, and Incremental 
Operating Costs under Parts A 
and C of the Project 
29,925,000 
 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
75,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
0
Amount due under 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2013. 
 
17 
 
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2 
 
Monitorable Indicators 
 
PDO 
Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome 
Information 
•Improve access to social 
and economic 
infrastructure and 
livelihood opportunities 
in participating 
communities. 
 
•Percentage of households reporting reduced travel 
time and cost of access to communal basic service 
facilities  
•Percentage of households reporting reduced cost of 
access to local agricultural production facilities. 
•Percentage of households with at least one adult 
family member who learned how to read or write as 
a result of the Project’s Learning-Livelihood 
Program. 
•Average sub-project economic rate of return. 
•Strengthen social 
cohesion and partnerships 
between and within 
targeted communities. 
•Proportion of households attributing improvement in 
their wellbeing to participation in collective 
community work. 
•Proportion of people confident in their ability to 
influence decisions in their village in identification 
of local development priorities. 
•Improve local governance 
and institutional 
capacities for 
implementation in the 
ARMM region.  
•Number of POs assessed as effective, sustainable 
and transparent  
•Average LGU cost-sharing rate (inc. % of the 
subproject total cost). 
•Ascertain that project 
is on track to 
achieving 
development 
objective. 
Intermediate Results 
Results Indicators 
Use of Results 
Monitoring 
Part A: Community Development Assistance  
•Improved access to key 
basic service facilities. 
•Improved capacity to 
maintain sustainable 
livelihood.  
•Number of communities with improved local 
infrastructure facilities implemented by the project. 
•Number of LGUs with improved municipal 
infrastructure facilities implemented by the Project 
•Number of direct beneficiaries of key basic service 
facilities (inc. % of the total population of the 
community). 
•Number of persons who gained employment as a 
result of the sub-project implementation.  
•To verify satisfactory 
progress in improving 
access to community 
services in 
participating villages. 
•Based on the verified 
outcomes, take 
appropriate corrective 
measures. 
18 
 
•Number of internally displaced people benefiting 
from the project. 
•Number of direct beneficiaries of the learning, 
livelihood and food self-sufficiency programs.  
•Number of women beneficiaries (inc. % of the total 
women population) 
•Number of indigenous people beneficiaries (inc. % 
of the total indigenous population).  
Intermediate Results 
Results Indicators 
Use of Results 
Monitoring 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening and Governance   
•Improved inclusiveness 
and transparency of the 
decision making process. 
•Improved capacity of the 
community and local 
government institutions to 
implement development 
programs. 
•Number of established POs. 
•Number of community sub-projects implemented at 
technical standards and within budgets (inc. % of 
total). 
•Number of POs with women officers (inc. % of 
total). 
•Number of POs having an indigenous personofficer 
(inc. % of the total number of POs in community 
where IPs are present). 
•Number of Municipal Teams installed and mobilized 
in target communities.  
•Number of village LGUs accepting signed MOAs 
between the Fund and Communities and assisting in 
participatory management of sub-project (inc. % of 
total number of project affected village LGUs) 
• Number of LGUs with institutionalized procedures 
for a) disclosure and dissemination of development 
project information; b) participatory planning 
 
•To verify satisfactory 
progress in 
institutional capacity 
building. 
•To verify 
inclusiveness of the 
participatory process. 
•Based on the verified 
outcomes, take 
appropriate corrective 
measures. 
19 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 1 and November 1 
beginning November 1, 2020 
through November 1, 2034 
3.33% 
On  May 1, 2035 
3.43% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
20 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
21 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“ARMM Regional Government” and “ARMM RG” mean the regional 
government established by Republic Act No 6734 dated August 01, 1989 as 
amended by Republic Act No. 9054 of March 31, 2001 for the ARMM, as the 
same may be amended from time to time. 
3. 
“ARMM” means the Borrower’s Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao. 
4. 
“Barangay” means a political sub-division within a city or a municipality; and 
“Barangays” means more than one Barangay. 
5. 
“Beneficiary” means an LGU (as this term is hereinafter defined), a non-
governmental organization established in accordance with the Borrower’s laws 
and regulations, a women’s group, an out-of-school youth group or a community 
group, selected in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual, 
which has obtained or will obtain a Sub-grant from ARMM RG to carry out a 
Sub-project under Part A of the Project in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in the Operations Manual and on the terms and conditions of the Sub-grant 
Agreement, provided that in the event of a conflict between the Operations 
Manual or the Sub-grant Agreement and this Agreement, the provisions  of this 
Agreement shall apply; and “Beneficiaries” means more than one Beneficiary. 
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
8. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of  the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, 
and “Displaced Persons” means more than one Displaced Person. 
22 
 
9. 
“Environmental Framework” means the Environmental Framework, adopted by 
the ARMM Regional Government on February 9, 2010 approved by the Bank 
and publically disclosed on February 9, 2010 describing the rules, guidelines and 
procedures to assess environmental impacts of Sub-projects and defining 
measures to reduce, mitigate or offset adverse environmental impacts and 
enhance positive impacts of Sub-projects. 
10. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31. 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
12. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures incurred by the 
PMO for staff travel, per diem, office space rental and utilities, communications 
and consumables, maintenance of vehicles and fuel, but excluding staff salaries, 
which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
13. 
“Indigenous Peoples Development Plan” and “IPDP” mean a plan for the 
informed participation of Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation 
of Sub-projects pursuant to the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and 
referred to in Schedule 2, Section I, Part A.1(h) to this Agreement. 
14. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the framework adopted by the 
ARMM Regional Government on February 9, 2010, approved by the Bank and 
publically disclosed on February 9, 2010 which provides guidelines and 
procedures for the preparation, adoption and implementation of a plan or plans 
for the consultation with and informed participation of Indigenous Peoples 
residing or cultivating lands in areas under the Project. 
15. 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and cultural 
identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following 
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural 
resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as 
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different 
from the national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political 
institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented production. 
16. 
“Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Displaced Person’s 
Framework” means the policy framework adopted by the ARMM Regional 
Government on February 9, 2010, approved by the Bank and publically disclosed 
23 
 
on February 9, 2010, providing procedures and guidelines for the preparation, 
adoption, implementation and monitoring of a Resettlement Action Plan or Plans. 
17. 
“LGUs” means local government units, political subdivisions of the Borrower at 
the provincial, city, municipal or Barangay level; and “LGU” means any one of 
such LGUs. 
18. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual adopted by the ARMM RG on April 21, 
2010 which includes, inter alia: (i) the description of the ARMM RG’s 
administrative and financial procedures, including its accounting, financial 
reporting and auditing procedures for the Project; (ii) the Policies and Guidelines 
as revised to the date of this Agreement; (iii) eligibility criteria and operational 
procedures for the selection of Beneficiaries, Sub-projects appraisal, approval 
and financing criteria including those terms and conditions referred to in 
Schedule 6 to the Original Loan Agreement; (iv) procedures for procurement, 
disbursement, supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation in respect of 
eligible Sub-projects consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and the 
Original Loan Agreement; (v) a sample Sub-grant Agreement; (vi) the 
Environmental Framework; (vii) the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Displaced Person’s Framework; (viii) the Indigenous Peoples 
Planning Framework; (ix) cost-sharing arrangements between the ARMM RG 
and the Sub-project Beneficiaries; and (x) procedures for the monitoring and 
reporting of Sub-project activities; as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 21, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
21. 
“Project Management Office” and “PMO” mean the office to be maintained 
within the ARMM RG for purposes of carrying out the Project, pursuant to 
Schedule 2, Section I, Part A.1 of this Agreement. 
22. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means an action plan for the compensation, 
resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, acceptable to the Bank, to 
be prepared and implemented pursuant to the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Displaced Person’s Framework. 
23. 
“Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between ARMM 
RG, through the PMO, and a Beneficiary for purposes of providing a Sub-grant 
24 
 
to finance all or part of a Sub-project under Part A of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2, Section I, Part B to this Agreement. 
24. 
“Sub-grant” means a sub-grant made available by ARMM RG to a Beneficiary 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance, in whole or in part, a Sub-project 
under Part A of the Project pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 2, Section I, 
Part B to this Agreement, and “Sub-grants” mean more than one Sub-grant. 
25. 
“Sub-project” means a specific development project under Part A of the Project, 
selected in accordance with procedures and criteria defined in the Operations 
Manual and carried out or to be carried out utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant. 
26. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the ARMM RG, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2, 
Section I, Paragraph A.1 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modification to the General Conditions is as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
