CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7948-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(School-Based Management Project- Phase II) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 9, 2010
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7948-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 9, 2010, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”) as represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as 
set forth in the table in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”)), shall be used in 
conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt 
laws and the terms of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred twenty million Dollars 
($220,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower’s 
representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs 
the Bank, the Borrower’s representative for purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director de 
Organismos Financieros Internacionales of NAFIN or any person or persons 
whom such representative shall designate in writing. 
 
-2- 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may (or may cause NAFIN) at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower (or NAFIN at the request of 
the Borrower) has requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General 
Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for the purpose 
in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
-3- 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower (through SEP) shall, and shall cause the States to, carry out the 
Project, in coordination with the Eligible Schools, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower (through SEP) and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any of 
the parties to the Contrato de Mandato or to the Coordination Agreements shall 
have failed to perform any of their obligations under the Contrato de Mandato or
under the Coordination Agreements or shall have failed to perform any other 
commitment undertaken vis-à-vis the Borrower with respect to this Project 
(including the transparency commitments referred to in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement).  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto;  
 
(b) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and SEP (in a separate legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank, issued by Borrower counsel acceptable to the 
Bank), and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, 
issued by NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, and NAFIN and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower, and NAFIN in accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato’s terms; and 
-4- 
 
(c)  
the Oficio referred to in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
has been issued and at least one State has deposited funds in the relevant 
FEEC as a tacit acceptance of the Oficio’s transparency provisions or at 
least one State has issued a note to SEP agreeing to comply with 
transparency provisions acceptable to the Bank. 
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on December 17, 2011. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP.  The 
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD 
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be 
the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP or any person or persons 
whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General 
Conditions: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsimile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
 6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-5- 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 
Authorized Representative 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen PEC by increasing overall coverage 
and social participation in Eligible Schools while putting greater emphasis on public 
marginalized schools and on the indigenous population, as well as a reorientation of the 
School Grants to improve public schools’ internal efficiency and learning outcomes. 
 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may 
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1: School Grants
Provision of support to PEC, through the provision of School Grants to Eligible Schools 
to implement school improvement plans. 
 
Part 2: Monitoring and Oversight
(a) 
Provision of support for: (i) the continuous operation, maintenance and 
upgrading of the PEC national management information system; and (ii) the 
accreditation and strengthening of State programs to manage information 
systems, to ensure that the information obtained through the referred State 
systems is compatible with the national management information system referred 
under Part 2 (a) (i) above and provides all the technical and fiduciary information 
required for the satisfactory implementation of the Project in the relevant State.  
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance to monitor and oversee the Project through, 
inter alia: (i) the carrying out of supervision visits; (ii) the organization and 
carrying out of seminars and workshops at state level; and (iii) the coordination 
of regional and national meetings attended by PEC’s federal and state authorities.  
(c) 
Design and implementation of an information campaign to disseminate Project 
objectives, activities and results.  
 
Part 3: Policy Development and Evaluation
(a)  
Carrying out of evaluations and assessments to create a strong analytical basis for 
development and improvement of PEC, including: (i) an external evaluation of 
PEC’s performance and preparation of an annual report; (ii) a qualitative 
evaluation to determine the non-quantifiable benefits accruing from PEC; (iii) 
SEP student learning achievements assessments using national education 
standards for each school year; and (iv) one impact evaluation of the Project. 
(b) 
Carrying out of Project-related policy studies including, inter alia, (i) studies 
focusing on improving the coordination of PEC with other SEP programs, 
-7- 
 
including a study to improve the coordination of PEC with the program 
administered by CONAFE, and a study to improve the coordination of PEC with 
the Oportunidades Program, and (ii) studies focusing on improving the equity 
and efficiency of PEC. 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
(a)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower (through SEP) and the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Borrower (through SEP) shall, and shall cause the 
States to, in coordination with the Schools, carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Operational Manual.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce 
any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written 
approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and any other provisions for Project implementation set 
forth in this Agreement, with respect to Part 3(a) (i) of the Project, the 
Borrower (through SEP) shall (i) hire consultants (acceptable to the 
Bank and who will work under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank) to carry out the external evaluation of PEC’s performance 
referred under Part 3(a)(i) ab initio of the Project, and (ii) prepare, with 
internal staff of PEC, the annual report referred under Part 3(a)(i) in fine 
of the Project.  
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall maintain an operational manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, specific provisions on 
detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including:  
 
(i) 
the procurement, disbursement and financial management 
requirements for the Project;  
 
(ii) 
the IPP;  
 
(iii) 
the Key Performance Indicators; 
 
(iv) 
the PEC operational rules, including: (A) the different type of 
School Grants to be provided under PEC; (B) the conditions for 
Schools to receive grants under PEC; (C) the selection criteria 
and priorities established by SEP and to be followed by the 
AEEs in the award of School Grants (including Eligible Schools 
-9- 
 
with students which come from families that benefit from the 
Oportunidades Program); and (D) the criteria for the school plan 
to be prepared by Eligible Schools in support of School Grant 
proposals; 
 
(v) 
the environmental and health regulations to be observed in case 
minor construction or rehabilitation activities need to be carried 
out in the context of School Grants; and 
 
(vi) 
transparency and anticorruption provisions, including a provision 
stating that part of the funds for the PEC are provided by the 
Bank through this Agreement, and therefore establishing audit, 
information and investigation rights for the Borrower (through 
SEP) which the Borrower hereby agrees to share with the Bank 
as set forth in Section D below.   
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall not amend the Operational Manual without the prior 
agreement with the Bank; provided, however, that the Borrower will be 
able to modify the section of the Operational Manual that includes the 
PEC Operational Rules when such modification does not, in the opinion 
of the Borrower and the Bank, adversely affect the performance or the 
objectives of the Project.  
 
3. 
(a)  
The Borrower (through SEP) shall enter into a separate Coordination 
Agreement,   satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of the Project, with 
each of the States, whereby: 
 
1. 
the Borrower (through SEP) shall agree to provide or cause to be 
provided, in a timely manner as needed and as provided for in 
the Operational Manual, the funds required for implementing the 
Project within each State; and 
 
2. 
the State shall agree to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall ensure that each Coordination 
Agreement be duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
by, the Borrower (through SEP) and each State and be legally binding 
upon the Borrower (through SEP) and each State in accordance with the 
relevant Coordination Agreement’s terms. 
 
4. 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall cause each State to abide by all applicable 
Project provisions laid out in this Agreement, including the carrying out of the 
Project in accordance to the Operational Manual (including the IPP and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines). 
-10- 
 
5. 
(a) 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall cause each State to ensure that each 
Eligible School carries out the activities under the relevant School Grant 
proposal in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.   
 
(b) 
In order for an Eligible School to receive a School Grant: (i) the Eligible 
School shall have entered into, and be in compliance with, an agreement 
with the relevant State (through its AEE) whereby, in exchange for 
deposits by the State of funds in a bank or other account controlled by 
the Eligible School, said Eligible School agrees to use such proceeds 
solely for purposes of Part 1(a) of the Project, to abide by the relevant 
provisions of the Operational Manual and to allow audits and review of 
records by, or on behalf of, the Borrower (through SEP) and the relevant 
State of the use of such proceeds. 
 
6. 
(a) 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Coordination Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.   
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower (through SEP) 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Coordination Agreements or any of their provisions in a manner that in 
the opinion of the Borrower or the Bank adversely affects the 
performance or the objectives of the Project. 
 
7. 
Consistently with Section 7 of the Disbursement Guidelines:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time, through regular Project supervision 
and auditing, that an amount of the Loan, disbursed pursuant to Category 
(1) in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, was not 
used by an Eligible School to acquire goods, works or services for 
purposes of the Project in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank additional evidence, as 
the Bank may request, to justify the use of said amount of the Loan, (in 
the case of such a request made by the Bank within one month before the 
Closing Date, the Borrower shall have up to four months after the 
Closing Date to furnish the requisite additional evidence to the Bank); 
and 
 
(b) 
in the event that the evidence referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph is not furnished to or found satisfactory by the Bank, the Bank 
reserves the right at all times to request a refund of the corresponding 
portion of the Loan for inclusion in the Loan Account. 
 
-11- 
 
8.  
The Borrower (through SEP) shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain at all times during Project implementation a team acceptable to 
the Bank, which shall be responsible for overall planning, coordination, 
implementation, supervision, technical support for basic education, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and which shall have, inter 
alia, the responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements, 
financial reports and Project Reports, and maintenance of the records and 
accounts referred to in Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b)  
ensure that the team referred in Section I.A.8 (a) of this Schedule is at all 
times staffed with at least a Project coordinator, a procurement specialist 
and a financial management specialist, all with terms of reference and 
experience acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(c) 
ensure that the team referred in Section I.A.8 (a) of this Schedule 2 is 
provided with adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out its 
responsibilities; 
 
(d) 
with the collaboration of the relevant State, maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the funds and other resources it (and/or any 
Eligible Schools or States) has received, allocated and/or spent in 
connection with the Project;  
 
(e) 
carry out, and/or cause any Eligible School or State to comply with the 
provisions of Section III of this Schedule with respect to Part 1of the 
Project; and 
 
(f) 
cooperate fully with NAFIN so as to allow NAFIN to comply with 
NAFIN’s obligations referred to in this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Contrato de Mandato
1. 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato), 
satisfactory to the Bank, among SEP and NAFIN, whereby, inter alia:
(a) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees 
to maintain and operate the designated account (referred to in the 
additional instructions cited in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule 2) in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement;  
-12- 
 
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower (through SEP) agrees to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement, including the IPP, the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, and the Operational Manual (including the 
Project’s financial management and procurement arrangements);   
 
(d) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or 
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the 
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its 
effects, or, if applicable, require the restitution of funds transferred to 
NAFIN under said Contrato de Mandato; and  
 
(e) 
the Borrower (through SEP) agrees to cooperate fully with NAFIN to 
ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations 
referred to in Section I.B.1(a) and (b) herein.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  The Borrower shall not amend, waive or 
fail to enforce the Contrato de Mandato or any provision thereof, except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree.  In case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Trust Agreements (Fideicomisos)
(a) 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall transfer the funds to finance Parts1 of 
the Project through the FNEC and through the relevant FEEC.   
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure and shall cause the States to ensure, through 
the exercise of the Borrower’s voice and voting rights and the exercise of 
the State’s voice and voting rights in the technical committees of the 
FNEC or the FEECs, as it may correspond, that the Project is carried out 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement (including the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines provisions and the IPP). 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the FNEC and under the FEECs in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except 
as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive 
or fail to enforce any provision of the FNEC or of any of the FEECs. In 
case of any conflict between the terms of the FNEC or of the FEECs and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
-13- 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. In this regard, the Borrower, 
through SEP or through any other entity as the Borrower may deem appropriate, 
shall, inter alia, ensure compliance with paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines as follows: 
 
(a) 
by requiring the States to take appropriate measures to prevent, inform 
on, respond to and investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and 
obstructive practices with respect to their payment (or that of their 
agents) of School Grants; 
 
(b) 
by allowing the Bank to inspect accounts, records and other documents 
of any/or all the States relating to the Project upon the Bank’s request 
and in the company of SEP representatives; 
 
(c) 
by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and 
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank’s 
terms of reference for such purpose, with the collaboration of the 
Borrower, through SEP; and 
 
(d) 
by agreeing to obtain restitution from any/or all of the States, as the case 
may be, of any amount of the Loan with respect to which fraud and 
corruption has occurred, all the above pursuant to audit, transparency, 
control, restitution and information sharing clauses within the 
Coordination Agreements and its annual annexes, the Operational 
Manual, letters from the State to the Borrower (to SEP), the Oficio 
referred under Section I.D.2 below, and/or any other means (including, 
but not limited to the Borrower’s rights under the Federal Budget and 
Fiscal Responsibility Law, the General Public Debt Law, and the 
Monitoring and Accountability Law). 
 
2. 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall issue a notice (Oficio) acceptable to the Bank 
asking the States to comply with transparency provisions, and stating that once 
the States have deposited funds in the relevant FEEC, such deposit will be 
interpreted as a tacit acceptance of the Oficio’s transparency provisions. 
 
3. 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall issue a notice to the financial institutions that 
administer the funds under the FNEC and the FEECs informing them of the 
existence of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (and accompanying a copy thereof), 
and notifying them that if any of those financial institutions incur in any of the 
sanctionable offences described under the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the Bank 
may sanction the relevant financial institution in accordance with the Bank’s 
sanctions regime. 
-14- 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower (through SEP) shall, and shall cause the States, to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
Key Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) 
days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall, and shall cause the States, to maintain or 
cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower 
(through SEP) shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall have the Project Financial Statements audited 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the Project becomes 
effective.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).  All goods, 
works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services) required for the Project 
and to be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided 
under the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under 
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
-15- 
 
referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions.  The Borrower (through SEP) shall: (a) supply the SEPA 
with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 45 days 
after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the Procurement 
Plan at least once a year, or as needed through the duration of the Project, to 
reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and supply the 
SEPA with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan 
immediately thereafter. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services) 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services (other than Consultants’ Services) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services).
The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services (other than Consultants’ Services).  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding  
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
-16- 
 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least-Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualification 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions). 
 
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on 
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to 
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions.  The remaining proceeds of the Loan 
shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A.1 
immediately above.  Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided 
under the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures. 
 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the 
Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category. 
 
-17- 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
Works 
and 
Consultants’ 
Services 
financed 
under 
School 
Grants  
 
211,720,000 
90% 
(2) Operating Costs 
 
3,300,000 
100% 
(3) Consultant Services  
 
4,430,000 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee  
 
550,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps 
and 
Interest 
rate 
Collars (amounts due under 
section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement) 
 
0 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
220,000,000 
 
4. 
For purposes of this Section IV.A the following term shall have the following 
meaning: 
 
(a) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs related to (i) conferences, 
workshops and training related expenditures (including space and 
equipment rental, and utilities), (ii) transportation and supervision costs 
(including reimbursement of travel costs and reasonable per diems), (iii) 
dissemination costs (including printing costs, and public events), and (iv) 
minor office supplies. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
(a) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal 
shall be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$44,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this 
date but after June 30, 2009 but in no case made more than twelve (12) 
months prior to the date of this Agreement; and. 
-18- 
 
(b) 
for payments made under Category (1) of the table under Part A of this 
Section unless the State for which School Grants will be financed has 
either (i) deposited funds under the relevant FEEC as a tacit acceptance 
of the transparency provisions requested under Section I.D.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement or (ii) sent a note to SEP committing to comply with 
transparency provisions acceptable to the Bank.   
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 
-19- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on December 
15, 2027. 
 
-20- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“AEE” means Autoridad de Educación Estatal, the education authority (Public 
Education Secretariat or equivalent) of each State. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“CONAFE” means the Borrower’s National Council for Educational Development 
(Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo), regulated under a Decree of the 
Borrower, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on September 10, 1971 (as 
amended by a Decree published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on February 11, 
1982). 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the Agreement to be entered into among the 
Borrower, through SHCP, SEP and NAFIN, pursuant to Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
7. 
“Coordination Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.A.3 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Eligible School” means a public school located in the Borrower’s territory, 
where basic education (pre-school and grades 1 through 9) level classes are held, 
which school meets eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) to participate as a beneficiary school under PEC (as 
hereinafter defined). 
 
9. 
“FEEC” means each of the trust funds (fideicomiso) duly established in each of 
the States or any subaccount established in the FNEC and managed by the 
relevant State as part of the implementation structure of PEC, with the objective 
of channeling PEC funds in the form of School Grants to Eligible Schools, as 
said trust funds may be amended with the agreement of the Bank.  
 
-21- 
 
10. 
“Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law” means the Borrower’s Ley 
Federal de Presupuesto y Responsabilidad Hacendaria, as said law and its 
subsequent amendments have been published in the Official Gazette through 
December 31, 2008. 
 
11. 
“FNEC” means the Borrower’s national trust fund (fideicomiso) established as 
part of the implementation structure of PEC (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to 
the trust fund agreement dated August 22, 2001 with the objective of channeling 
PEC funds to the FEECs, as said trust fund may be amended with the agreement 
of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
13. 
“General Public Debt Law” means the Borrower’s Ley General de Deuda 
Pública, as said law and its subsequent amendments have been published in the 
Official Gazette through December 21, 1995. 
 
14. 
“Hedging Guidelines” means the Bank’s Guidelines for Using Hedging Products 
dated March 23, 2009 or any later guidelines issued by the Bank to replace said 
guidelines. 
 
15. 
“IPP” means the Borrower’s Indigenous Peoples Plan dated January 2010. 
 
16. 
“Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
monitoring and evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives. 
 
17. 
“Monitoring and Accountability Law” means the Borrower’s Ley de Fiscalización 
y Rendición de Cuentas de la Federación, as said law and its subsequent 
amendments have been published in the Official Gazette through May 29, 2009. 
 
18. 
“NAFIN” means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Mexican development bank 
serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 
 
19. 
“Official Gazette” means the Recipient’s official gazette (Diario Oficial de la 
Federación). 
 
20. 
“Oficio” means the notice referred in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
21. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, dated April 26, 2010, as said manual may be amended from 
time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
-22- 
 
22. 
“Oportunidades Program” means the Borrower’s program to assist poor families 
through the provision of cash transfers conditional on compliance with the 
conditions referred to in the operational rules in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
on December 29, 2009. 
 
23. 
“PEC” means the Borrower’s Programa Escuelas de Calidad, which program 
operates under the operating rules published in the Official Gazette on December 
24, 2009, with the objective of, inter alia: strengthening and promoting schools’ 
autonomy, parental participation accountability, and the active involvement of 
the schools’ community in the delivery of basic education services, through the 
provision of School Grants. 
 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 14, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
26. 
“Program” means the Borrower’s School-Based Management Program detailed in 
the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated October 12, 2005. 
 
27. 
“School Grant” means a grant not to exceed $9,000 equivalent per Eligible School 
per year, made or proposed to be made under PEC, through FNEC and FEEC, out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, to Eligible Schools for the financing of goods, works 
and services to implement school improvement plans, under Part 1 of the Project. 
 
28. 
“SEP” means Secretaría de Educación Pública, the Borrower’s Public Education 
Ministry. 
 
29. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
 
30. 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.  
 
31. 
“State” means the Federal District (Distrito Federal) and any of the other thirty one 
geopolitical subdivisions (Estados) of the Borrower. 
 
-23- 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and 
as 
further 
specified 
in 
the 
Conversion 
Guidelines.” 
-24- 
 
