CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7932-BY 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Integrated Solid Waste Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 5, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 5, 2010 between REPUBLIC OF BELARUS (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty two million, five hundred and 
six thousand dollars ($42,506,000) as such amount may be converted from time 
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25% percent) of the Loan amount. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of the Front-end Fee.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project through MHU and 
the Grodno Oblast Executive Committee, Part C of the Project through MENRP, 
and Part D of the Project through MHU, all in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and the GEF Grant Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that Parts A, B and D of the Project are carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
3
(b) 
The Borrower, through MHU, has installed and made operational an 
automated accounting system at the PCT, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Council of Ministers 
House of Government 
Minsk, 220010 
11 Sovetskaya Street  
Republic of Belarus 
 
Facsimile: 
 
375 17 2226665 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Minsk, Republic of Belarus, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
 
By /s/ Vladimir M. Belokhvostov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ivan Velev 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase environmental benefits of 
integrated solid waste management in the City of Grodno through recovery and reuse of 
recyclable materials; and (ii) strengthen national capacities to manage hazardous wastes 
associated with Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs). 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Construction of Mechanical Waste Separation Facility 
Provision of goods, works and consultants services for design, construction and 
supervision in the City of Grodno for a modern mechanical waste separation plant to 
recover recyclable materials. 
 
Part B: Waste Management Improvements
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to improve the collection of 
separated waste in the City of Grodno, including carrying out of public information and 
awareness raising activities.  
 
Part C: Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) Stockpile Management
1. 
Provision of works, goods and technical assistance, including training to: (a) 
ensure environmentally sound management of the destruction of high-priority stockpiles 
of POPs and associated contaminated equipment; (b) provide secure storage for lower 
risk stockpiles; and (c) support in planning infrastructure to manage future POPs 
generation. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to: (a) strengthen the Republic of 
Belarus’ capacity in the implementation of the National Implementation Plan; (b) 
integrate POPs into established national environmental and health monitoring and 
environmental information systems; and (c) define a long term elimination program for 
unintended POPs release, including public information and awareness raising activities. 
 
3. 
 Provision of technical assistance and training to ensure acceptable coverage of 
POPs within the overall national regulatory and legislative framework of solid waste 
management. 
 
4. 
 Provision of technical assistance and training to finance staffing for MNREP to 
ensure fiduciary and reporting requirements are adhered to. Provision of Incremental 
Operating Costs to strengthen MNREP.  
 
Part D: Project Management and other Support Activities
6
Strengthening the management capacity of the PCT to monitor and administer 
the Project implementation, including staffing, training , financial audit and Incremental 
Operating Costs. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MHU, the Grodno Oblast Executive Committee and 
the PCT, shall have overall responsibility for implementing Parts A, B and D of the 
Project with such staff and resources as shall be required and in accordance with the 
Operational Manual.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MHU and the Grodno Oblast Executive Committee, 
shall maintain the PCT with such staff and resources as shall be required for the PCT to 
perform its duties in respect of day-to-day management and implementation. The MHU 
and the Grodno Oblast Executive Committee shall appoint coordinators to assist the PCT 
in the implementation of Parts A, B and D of Project. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the Grodno Oblast Executive Committee, shall furnish to 
the Bank: 
 
(a)  
by December 31, 2011, a proposed structure for the operations and 
management of the waste treatment facility to be constructed under Part A of the 
Project, including a business plan; and  
 
(b)  
by December 31, 2012, evidence of arrangements with users of the 
outputs from the mechanical treatment facility.  
 
4. 
The Borrower, through the Grodno Oblast Executive Committee, by June 30, 
2011, shall review with the Bank the improvement and supervision of Grodno City’s 
solid waste separation at source measures and activities under Part B of the Project, and 
discuss with the Bank the implementation of these measures and activities and their 
impact on the operation of the mechanical solid waste facility.   
 
5. 
The Borrower shall:    
 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 15, 2013, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation of activities under Parts A and B of the Project, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project 
8
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by September 15, 2013 or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
EMP for Parts A and B of the Project shall be taken in a timely manner. Except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
EMP for Parts A and B of the Project or any provision thereof. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than September 30, 2016. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
9
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
10 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder 
and/or origin of goods; 
 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works 
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works projects; 
 
(iii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government, unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law; 
 
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
 
(vi) 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of 
producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
 
(vii) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may be rejected  where bid prices are 
substantially higher from the existing budget, in accordance with 
paragraphs 2.61-2.63 of the Guidelines; 
 
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank; 
 
(ix) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
 
(x) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in 
the contract scope and conditions during implementation. 
 
(xi) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual 
ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated period, to be awarded a 
contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time determines that the firm 
or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, 
11 
 
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing 
for, or in executing, a contract financed by the Bank. 
 
(xii) 
Right to Inspection/audit.    Each bidding document and contract 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall include a provision 
requiring bidders, suppliers, contractors and sub-contractors to permit 
the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating 
to the bid submission and performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.  The 
deliberate and material violation by the bidder, supplier, or contractor 
or subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e) Single-source Selection 
 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
12 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
13 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1)  
Goods, works, 
consultants’ services and  
Incremental Operating 
Costs for Parts A and D 
of the Project 
 
42,399,735 
100% 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
 
106,265 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
42,506,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2016. 
 
14 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and 
October 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last 
installment to be payable on the thirtieth (30th) Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one 
shall be equal to one-twentieth (1/20th) of the Disbursed Amount.  The last installment 
shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.  
 
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after April 15, 
2031, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such 
installments. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
15 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“City of Grodno” means the city of Grodno as defined and established under the 
laws of the Republic of Belarus. 
4. 
“GEF Grant Agreement” means the Global Environmental Facility Grant 
Agreement of same date between the Republic of Belarus and the Bank, acting as 
an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility.   
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“EMP for Parts A and B of the Project” means the Environmental Management  
Plan, describing environmental monitoring and mitigation measures for activities 
under Parts A and B of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared and 
adopted by the Grodno Oblast Executive Committee on November 12, 2009. 
 
7. 
“EMP for Part C of the Project” means the Environmental Management Plan, 
describing environmental monitoring and mitigation measures for activities under 
Part C of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared and adopted by the 
MNREP on November 12, 2009. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“ Grodno Oblast Executive Committee” means the executive committee within 
the Grodno Oblast established under the laws of the Republic of Belarus. 
 
10. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means operating expenditures incurred on 
account of management of the Project implementation for communications, 
utilities, office rent, maintenance and supplies, office furniture and equipment, 
office security systems, transportation and field trip expenses, training of the staff 
16 
 
for the purpose of Project management, remuneration for staff, including 
qualified social charges but excluding salaries of civil servants, and such other 
expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank. 
 
11. 
“MHU” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing and Utilities or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
12. 
“MNREP” means the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Protection 
of the Republic of Belarus or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
13. 
“Operational Manual for Parts A and B of the Project” means the manual  dated 
May 12, 2010 and which describes all the procedures for implementation of Parts 
A and B of the Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with 
the national laws and regulations of the Republic of Belarus and including, inter 
alia, procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, monitoring and evaluation arrangements under Parts A and B of the 
Project; as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank. 
 
14. 
“Operational Manual for Part C of the Project” means the manual dated May 12, 
2010 and describing procedures for implementation of Part C of the Project, 
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national laws and 
regulations of the Republic of Belarus and including, inter alia, procedures 
governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements under Part C of the Project; as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
15. 
“PCT” means the Project Coordinating Team established within the Research and 
Production Republican Unitary Enterprise “Zhilkommuntechnica” of MHU 
which is responsible for day to day implementation of Part A of the Project, 
reporting and monitoring under Part B of the Project, and Part D of the Project. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 13, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“RUE Zhilkommuntechnica” means the Research and Production Republican 
Unitary Enterprise established by a Decree of the Minister of Housing and 
Utilities of the Republic of Belarus No. 136 dated August 26, 1977. 
 
17 
 
19. 
“POPs” means Persistent Organic Pollutants. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02.  Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
2. 
The following term and definition set forth in the Appendix is modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new term and definition is  added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix : 
 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
