CONFORMED COPY 
 
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF096291 
 
Clean Technology Fund Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Transport Transformation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT  
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund 
 
and 
 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. 
 
Dated July 21, 2010 
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF096291 
 
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 21, 2010, entered into between: 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“World Bank”), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an 
implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund (“CTF”) and BANCO NACIONAL 
DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (“Borrower”). 
 
(A) 
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the United Mexican 
States (the Guarantor), through SHCP, and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the 
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the Loan Payment obligations of the Borrower in 
respect of the Loan; 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (the IBRD Loan Agreement), 
the World Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan  in the amount of one 
hundred and fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on 
terms and conditions set forth in the IBRD Loan Agreement.  
 
(C) 
WHEREAS the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan 
(as set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes 
of supporting the Project), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the public 
debt law of the United Mexican States and the terms of this Agreement. 
 
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an 
implementing entity of the CTF.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard 
Conditions, the Borrower may withdraw the Loan proceeds subject to the 
availability of such funds.  The Borrower agrees that only the resources made 
available to the World Bank for the purpose of the Loan shall be considered for 
the enforcement of any obligations, claims or liabilities under or in connection 
with the Loan. 
 
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of 
the Standard Conditions, shall be equal to one-quarter of one percent (1/4 of 1%) 
of the Loan. The Borrower shall make the one-time payment of the Management 
Fee not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.   
 
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%). 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is USD. 
 
ARTICLE III - THE PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Eligible Beneficiaries to carry out the Project to 
in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions and 
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the relevant Credit Agreements. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - ADDITIONAL REMEDIES 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any 
Eligible Beneficiary shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
relevant Credit Agreement or a situation shall have arisen so as to materially and 
adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of any Eligible 
Beneficiary to carry out its obligations under the relevant Credit Agreement, in 
3
which cases the Bank may suspend Loan disbursements with respect to the 
above-cited Eligible Beneficiary (and related Subproject) that has so failed to 
perform, or whose ability to perform has been materially and adversely affected. 
 
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the World Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The IBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of 
this Agreement) have been fulfilled; and 
 
(b) 
The Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s 
approval of the Loan which expire on September 25, 2011.  
 
ARTICLE VI - BORROWER’S REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is its General Director (Director General). 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. 
Javier Barros Sierra, 515 
Colonia Lomas de Santa Fe, Delegación Álvaro Obregón 
México DF, 01219 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
(52-55) 5270-1200 
(52-55) 5270-1564 
 
4
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an implementing entity of the  
Clean Technology Fund 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS 
PUBLICOS, S.N.C. 
 
By /s/ Alonso García Tamés 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the transformation of urban 
transport in Mexican cities toward a lower carbon growth path. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1. Capacity Building
Provision of technical assistance and training to the Eligible Beneficiaries for the 
development and/or strengthening of the local urban transport development process in the 
Participating Entities, including, inter alia:
(i) 
the preparation, update or completion of Integral Transport Plans (ITP), 
which will include climate change mitigation considerations;   
 
(ii) 
the development of plans for modernizing traffic management and for 
efficient allocation of public space for transport and non-motorized 
modes;  
 
(iii) 
support to urban transport institutions or regional transport coordination 
commissions which are responsible for sector coordination, modal and 
fare integration promotion and updating of ITPs; and 
 
(iv) 
training of local government staff and other civil servants in areas such 
as 
transport 
system 
inventory, 
urban 
transport 
planning 
and 
programming, traffic management, formulation of urban transport 
projects including bus rapid transit projects, traffic safety, non-motorized 
transport modes, environmental and social evaluation and rehabilitation 
and maintenance of roads.  
 
Part 2. Development of Integrated Transit Systems that Reduce CO2 Emissions
Development of integrated transit systems that contribute to the reduction of CO2 
emissions in the Borrower’s cities within the context of the ENACC and the PECC, by 
approximately 1,96 million tons per year beginning in 2017, through the carrying out of 
the following activities: 
6
A. Mass Transit Corridors and Ancillary Investment 
(a) 
Provision of financing for the development of Integrated Mass Transit Corridors 
(IMTC) in the Participating Entities, including, inter alia: the preparation, design, 
construction, supervision, maintenance and rehabilitation of roads for trunk lines 
and feeder roads, terminals, yards, transfer and access stations, mixed traffic 
lanes, and the acquisition of rolling stock, signaling, control centers, information 
systems, environmental monitoring equipment, and fare collection systems.   
 
(b) 
Provision of financing for ancillary carbon-reduction transport investments, 
including, inter alia: the adoption of traffic management measures, non-
motorized transport, design of and implementation of universal access facilities, 
carrying out of studies and design of facilities for bike-transit integration, parking 
space and transfer stations, vehicle use restriction, public space improvements, 
including sidewalks, adoption of safety and security programs, design of land use 
density and clustering plans, intelligent transportation, transport demand 
management marketing and promotion, freight management and car free 
planning. 
 
B. Low Carbon Rolling Stock Technologies and Scrapping of Displaced Buses
(a) 
Provision of financing for the acquisition of low-carbon rolling stock to be 
operated in the Participating Entities; and 
 
(b)  
Provision of finance for programs concerning the scrapping of old and displaced 
buses, including, inter alia: (i) building institutional capacity to develop and/or 
adopt clean and environmentally sound scrapping strategies (collection, 
dismantling and final disposal); (ii) the purchasing of displaced rolling stock; and 
(iii) financing of the scrapping process, defined as the collection, destruction and 
recycling of steel scrap and disposal of non recyclable materials. 
 
Part 3. Project Management
Provision of support (including the implementation of a technical monitoring 
system) to the Eligible Beneficiaries for the supervision and monitoring of the 
implementation of the Subprojects in the Participating Entities.  
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive 
any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written 
approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall select each Subproject in accordance with the eligible criteria 
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank established in the PROTRAM 
Guidelines, and the Operational Manual.  
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Subprojects and Credit Agreements.
1. 
The Borrower shall make Sub-loans to Eligible Beneficiaries in accordance with 
eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the 
Operational Manual and in accordance with current internal practices of the 
Borrower.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall make each Sub-loan under a Credit Agreement with the 
respective Eligible Beneficiary (Contrato  de Crédito), on terms and conditions 
approved by the Bank, in which the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to 
protect its interests and those of the Bank, including the right to:  
 
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the 
amount of the Sub-loan then withdrawn, upon the Eligible Beneficiary’s 
failure to perform any of its obligations under the Credit Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
require each Eligible Beneficiary to:  (i) carry out its Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and 
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the 
8
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to Recipients of 
loan proceeds other than the Borrower and with the provisions of the 
ESMF; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the 
purpose; (iii) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of 
the Sub-loan in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (iv) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
progress of the Subproject and the achievement of its objectives; (v) (A) 
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Subproject; and (B) 
at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and 
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the 
Bank; (vi) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Subproject, 
its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (vii) prepare 
and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the 
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Credit Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Credit Agreement 
or any of its provisions. 
 
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out and/or shall cause each Eligible Beneficiary to 
carry out Part 1 and 2 of the Project the Sub-projects in accordance with the 
provisions and recommendations of the ESMF. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall and/or shall cause each Eligible Beneficiary to, prior to the 
carrying out of any works under any Sub-project: (a) carry out, or cause to be 
carried out, an environmental screening/assessment of each of the pertinent 
works, and if needed, as determined by the Bank, approve or cause to be 
approved, an environmental management plan or similar environmental 
instrument, acceptable to the Bank, for each of said works (which plan or similar 
environmental instrument shall be based on the results of the pertinent 
screening/assessment mentioned herein, and the Bank’s comments on the results 
of said screening/assessment, if any); and (b) immediately after said approval, 
implement and/or cause to be implemented, the corresponding plan (or similar 
environmental instrument) in accordance with its terms, and in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
9
3. 
If as a result of the carrying out of the screening/assessment process mentioned in 
Section I.D 2. of this Schedule, it is determined by the Bank that resettlement 
will be involved in respect of any given works under the Project, the Borrower 
shall, and/or shall cause each Eligible Beneficiary to: (i) prior to the 
commencement of any said works under the territorial jurisdiction of the relevant 
Participating Entity, prepare (and/or cause to be prepared) and furnish to the 
Bank, a resettlement plan (acceptable to the Bank) which plan shall be based on 
the provisions of the relevant Resettlement Framework; and (ii) immediately 
after, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) the 
corresponding resettlement plan in accordance with its terms, and in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the World Bank and set 
forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than 
three months after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion 
Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date.  
 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and 
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
World Bank. 
 
10
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the Effective 
Date occurs.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
4. 
Special Provisions.  The Borrower shall: (a) supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 45 days after the 
Project has been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the Procurement Plan at 
least once a year, or as needed through the duration of the Project, to reflect the 
actual Project implementation needs and progress and supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except, as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following 
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
procurement of goods (US<$3000,000) and works (US$<15,000,000) for those 
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:  
11
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior approval 
(d) Procurement under BOO (Built, Own, Operate) /BOT (Built, Operate, 
Transfer) /BOOT (Built, Own, Operate, Transfer), Concessions and Similar 
Private Sector Arrangements acceptable to the Bank.  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in 
the Procurement Plan:  
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Fixed Budget Selection 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Single Source Selection, subject to the Bank’s prior approval 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the World Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.   
 
12
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Consultants’ services and 
Training  for Part 1 of the 
Project 
 
5,000,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for 
Part 2.A of the Project 
 
106,000,000 
100% 
(3) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for 
Part 2.B(a) of the Project 
 
76,000,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for 
Part 2.B(b) of the Project 
 
13,000,000 
Amount payable in accordance 
with Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and Section 4.01(a) 
of the Standard Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
200,000,000 
 
3. 
For purposes of this Section IV. A, the term “Training” means non-consultant 
expenditures incurred in connection with the provision of training under the 
Project, including training fees, logistics, materials, and reasonable cost of travel 
and per diem of trainers and trainees. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Management Fee; or 
 
13
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement , except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after August 24, 2009 (but in no case earlier than one year from the date 
of this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures; or   
 
(c) 
for payments to finance Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2)  
(3) and (4)  in respect of any Subproject to be carried out by any Eligible 
Beneficiary, unless: (i) the Borrower has carried out and submitted to the 
Bank a satisfactory financial management assessment of the relevant 
Eligible Beneficiary, as described in the Operational Manual; (ii) the 
relevant Credit Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto; and 
(iii) the Borrower and/or the Eligible Beneficiary have complied with the 
requirements of Section I.D.2 and 3 (if applicable) of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017. 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15, commencing on 
June 15, 2020 to and including December 15, 2029. 
 
5% 
15
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“BRT” means bus rapid transit system. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006.” 
5. 
“Credit Agreements” means any of the agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each of the Eligible Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined), referred 
to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the 
Borrower shall make Sub-loans (as hereinafter defined) to the Eligible 
Beneficiaries. 
6. 
“Eligible Beneficiaries” means the Guarantor’s Federal District, a state or 
municipality or any public or private entity (with legal personality) in the 
Guarantor’s territory, which is eligible for participation in the Project and for 
carrying out a Subproject according to the eligibility criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual, to which the Borrower proposes to make or has 
made a Sub-loan. 
7. 
“ENACC” means the Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climático, the national 
strategy for Climate Change published by the Guarantor in May 2007 in 
www.semarnat.gob.mx in May 2007. 
8. 
“ESMF” means Environmental and Social Management Framework (Marco de 
Salvaguarda Ambiental y Social para el Transporte Urbano – MASTU), the 
Borrower’s environmental and social framework for the Project, disclosed on 
January 2009 and updated on February 18, 2010,  which includes specific 
procedures to address the direct and indirect environmental impacts of the 
Project’s activities and specific guidelines and procedures to prevent, mitigate or 
compensate eventual environmental and social impacts, including the guidelines 
for carrying out the environmental/social screenings/assessments referred to in 
Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as well as a Resettlement 
Framework (as hereinafter defined). Such document constitutes an integral part 
16
of the Operational Manual, and may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of both the Borrower and the Bank. 
9. 
“FONADIN” means Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura, the 
national infrastructure fund established pursuant to the Guarantor’s Decree 
published in the Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la Federación on February 7, 
2008, with the purpose of coordinating federal investment in infrastructure, 
mainly in the communications, transport, water, environment and tourism 
sectors. 
10. 
“FONADIN Technical Committee” means the technical committee (Comité 
Técnico) of FONADIN, as defined in the Decree referred to in definition (10) of 
Section I of this Appendix and with the structure, procedures and functions 
defined under the Fourth Modifying Agreement (as hereinafter defined). 
11. 
“Fourth Modifying Agreement” means the Cuarto Convenio Modificatorio al 
Contrato de Fideicomiso de Administración y Fuente de Pago Número 1936, 
dated May 6, 2008, entered into between  the Borrower, in its capacity as 
financial agent of the Guarantor  and the Borrower, in its capacity of fiduciary 
institution, and with the participation of Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito 
Público, with the purpose of modifying and merging the FARAC - Fideicomiso 
de Apoyo para el Rescate de Autopistas Concesionadas into FONADIN.  
12. 
“GHG” means greenhouse gases. 
13. 
“IMTC” means integrated mass transit corridor, a high capacity public transport 
system that entail improvements in infrastructure, technology, operations and 
institutional characteristics in order to provide users with high quality service and 
that results in emission reductions. 
14. 
“ITPs” means integral transport plan or Plan Integral de Movilidad Urbana  
Sustentable (PIMUS) or equivalent, as defined in the PROTRAM Guidelines (as 
hereinafter defined). 
15. 
“IBRD Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Bank referred to in the Whereas clause (B) of this 
Agreement. 
16. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, satisfactory to the Bank 
and setting out the operational and administrative rules, procedures and formats 
for evaluation, approval, processing, financing implementation and supervision 
of Sub-Projects, including inter alia: (i) the carrying out of financial management 
activities (including reporting and audits) for the Project; (ii) the carrying out of 
procurement; (iii) Project monitoring, evaluation and reporting thereon 
(including the indicators referred to in Schedule 2, Section II.A of this 
17
Agreement); and (iv) the ESMF. Said manual may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of both the Borrower and the Bank. 
17. 
“Participating Entity” means the Guarantor’s Federal District, a state or 
municipality in the Guarantor’s territory where a Subproject will be implemented 
by an Eligible Beneficiary. 
18. 
“PECC” means the Programa Especial de Cambio Climático, the Borrower’s 
special program for combating climate change while establishing the sectoral 
level interventions that will result in GreenHouse Gas emission reductions, 
published in the Borrower’s Diario Oficial de la Federación on August 28, 2009, 
which provides an accounting of emissions by sector, creates a framework for 
monitoring improvements and establishes a blueprint for emission reduction 
initiatives, sector by sector.   
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 6, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
21. 
“Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for which 
the Loan is extended, as the description of such project may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.  
22. 
“PROTRAM” means Programa de Apoyo Federal al Transporte Masivo, the 
Borrower’s support program for mass transit, established pursuant to Resolution 
(Acuerdo) of FONADIN Technical Committee’s meeting of December 17, 2008. 
23. 
“PROTRAM Guidelines” means the Lineamientos del Programa de Apoyo 
Federal al Transporte Masivo approved by a Resolution of FONADIN Technical 
Committee on December 17, 2008, as approved to be amended on May 14, 2010 
by Resolution CT/2A ORD/14-MAYO-2010/XXIII of FONADIN Technical 
Committee.    
24. 
“Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s framework, included in the 
ESMF (as defined above), which includes, inter alia, the principles and 
objectives governing resettlement preparation and implementation, a description 
of the process for preparing and approving resettlement plans, and the applicable 
legal framework to address resettlement issues under the Project.  
18
25. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
26. 
SHCP” means the Guarantor’s Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público; the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
27. 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, through a Credit Agreement, to an Eligible Beneficiary, 
for purposes of financing the expenditures incurred by the Eligible Beneficiary 
for goods, works and services under Part 1 and/or 2 of the Project. 
28. 
“Subproject” means a specific activity under Parts 2 of the Project, selected to be 
financed under the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedures of the 
Operational Manual, which is proposed to be carried out by an Eligible 
Beneficiary through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-loan, in accordance 
with the provisions of the relevant Credit Agreement. 
29. 
“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the 
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated March 18, 2009. 
 
