  
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7889-AZ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(Third Highway Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
  
Dated August 11, 2010 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
LOAN NUMBER 7889-AZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated August 11, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and seventy one million 
and six hundred thousand United States dollars (US$171,600,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
- 2 - 
  
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by ARS in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
- 3 - 
  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account in Manat 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to finance its counterpart 
contribution to the expenditures of the Project; 
 
(b) 
replenish, on a monthly basis, the Project Account opened pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement up to the original level of no less than 
two million Manats, and thereafter during each following month deposit 
into the Project Account the amounts required to cover the Borrower’s 
counterpart contributions, as determined by the Borrower and the Bank; 
and 
 
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to finance the Borrower’s counterpart contributions to the 
Project. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: that the 
Presidential Decree on the Measures to Improve Management of Transport and 
Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated February 22, 2007, or the Decision No. 
180 of the Cabinet of Ministers dated November 15, 2007 has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of the ARS to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period 
of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrowers. 
 
- 4 - 
  
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Ministry of Finance 
and the Ministry of Transport on behalf of the Borrower and the ARS, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
The Project Account has been opened by the Borrower in a local 
commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, and an initial deposit in an 
amount of not less than two million Manat has been made by the 
Borrower into such account; and 
 
(c) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
request disbursement thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the ARS 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower as represented by the Ministries of 
Finance and Transport and the ARS in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
142116 BNKSL  
99412 4044720 
 
 
 
99412 4044721 
- 5 - 
  
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ziya Arzuman oglu Mammadov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Joseph Owen 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 - 
  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to a more efficient and safer Baku-
Shamakhi road and higher quality road services as part of the general network upgrading 
to motorway standard, and to improve the management of the nascent motorway network. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Motorway Improvement 
 
1. 
Upgrading the existing two lane Baku-Shamakhi road to a four lane motorway 
and the related road safety activities, through the carrying out of works and the provision 
of goods and consultants’ services. 
 
2. 
Provision of consultants’ services for the supervision and technical audit of the 
above mentioned road and the design of priority investments of the main road network. 
 
Part B: Institutional Development 
 
1. 
Preparation of a study to explore options for a policy on management and 
financing and efficient allocation of resources for Azerbaijan’s motorways, through the 
provision of consultants’ services and training. 
 
2. 
Institutional development of the ARS in motorway operation and maintenance 
by: (a) establishing motorway guidelines; (b) testing a small experimental motorway 
management unit at ARS; and (c) carrying out an operations and maintenance pilot on 
sections of existing motorways, through the provision of goods, consultants’ services and 
training. 
 
Part C: Project Management 
 
Supporting the Project management capacity of the PIU, through the provision of 
goods, consultants’ services and training. 
 
- 7 - 
  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Operational Manual, the 
EMF, and the RPF are applied by the ARS; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be 
amended or waived, the Operational Manual, the EMF, and/or the RPF, or any provision 
thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, cause the ARS to 
maintain the PIU and shall ensure that the PIU is adequately staffed by personnel with 
qualifications and under terms of reference and functions at all times in accordance with 
procedures necessary and appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory 
to the Bank.  The functions of the PIU shall include, inter alia, responsibility for: (a) the 
procurement process, financial management and the preparation of withdrawal 
applications under the Project; and (b) monitoring and evaluation of the progress in 
implementing the Project, in accordance with indicators agreed upon with the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of standards for design, construction and 
planning of motorways and highways adopted by the European Union or, alternatively, 
such standards adopted by the American Association of State Highway and 
Transportation Officials (in addition to the national standards), acceptable to the Bank, in 
the design, construction and maintenance of road works under the Project. 
4. 
By not later than December 31, 2010, the Borrower shall cause the ARS to 
recruit a financial auditor under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
5. 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, six (6) months as of the completion of the works for upgrading 
the Baku-Shamakhi road under Part A of the Project, a report on the execution of such 
works and the related plan on operations and maintenance of the Baku-Shamakhi road. 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the ARS, the Borrower shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to the ARS under a subsidiary agreement (“Subsidiary 
Agreement”) between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport on behalf of 
the Borrower and the ARS, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which 
- 8 - 
  
shall include, without limitation ARS’s undertakings to carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in this Agreement, the Operational Manual, Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, EMF and the RPF. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the EMF, EIA(s), EMP(s), RPF and RAP(s).  The Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EMF, EIA(s), EMP(s), RPF and/or RAP(s) or any 
provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank. 
2. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the issuance 
of the bidding documents for the works contract for each segment of the Baku-Shamakhi 
road, prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval: (i) the proposed design and site for 
said works and, the related site-specific EIA and/or EMP in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the draft contract for said works to ensure that the 
provisions of said site-specific EIA and/or EMP are adequately included in said contract; 
(b) prior to the signing of the contract for said works, prepare and submit to the Bank for 
its approval the site-specific land acquisition and/or resettlement action plan(s) (RAP(s)) 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) prior to the commencement of the 
works, ensure that the owners and users of the land where said works are to be 
implemented are fully compensated in accordance with the provisions of the RAP(s). 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of 
carrying out of the Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) ensure that the selection of any road section under Part A of 
the Project is done in accordance with the provisions of the EMF; (c) ensure the complete 
implementation of the EMPs in a manner acceptable to the Bank, including all necessary 
measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts caused by the 
implementation of the Project; and (d) maintain the ARS’s environmental management 
office with competent staff in adequate numbers and with such responsibilities and 
functions acceptable to the Bank as shall enable the ARS to manage, coordinate and 
monitor the implementation of the EMPs. 
 
- 9 - 
  
4. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the ARS prepares RAPs according to the 
RPF; (b) maintain or cause to be maintained by ARS, and publicize or cause to be 
publicized by ARS, the availability of, grievance procedures to hear and determine fairly 
and in good faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints raised in relation to the 
implementation of the RAPs by those being resettled (as that term is defined in the RAP) 
or by those in host communities who are adversely affected by the implementation of the 
RPF, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made under such 
grievance procedures; (c) through the ARS, employ a resettlement expert, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to conduct an ex post review of the implementation of the RAPs; (d) through 
the ARS, furnish promptly to the Bank the findings and recommendations for follow up 
action resulting from each such review; and (e) through the ARS, implement all such 
recommendations for follow up action as are agreed with the Bank. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about October 1, 2012, a mid-term report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause ARS to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
- 10 - 
  
3. 
The Borrower shall cause ARS to have the Project Financial Statements audited 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each 
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder; 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works procurement and 
shall be conducted only for large works contracts; 
- 11 - 
  
Procurement Method 
(iii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law; 
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
(vi) 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of 
producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
(vii) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ 
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring 
entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available budget; 
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank; 
(ix) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
(x) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the 
contract scope and conditions during implementation; and 
(xi) 
standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used. 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 12 - 
  
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Least Cost Selection 
(c) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) 
Single-Source Selection 
(e) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
- 13 - 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 
 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(Net of VAT) 
 
(1) Goods, Works, 
Consultants’ Services 
including Audit, 
Training and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs for the Project 
 
171,171,000 
80% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
       429,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
  
 
0 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
171,600,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2015. 
 
- 14 - 
  
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2014 
 
through June 15, 2026 
 
 
3.85% 
 
On December 15, 2026 
3.75% 
 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
- 15 - 
  
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 16 - 
  
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“ARS” means the “Azerroadservice” Open Joint-stock Company, or Azerbaijan 
Road Service, which is also the Project Implementing Entity, established as an 
Open Joint-stock Company under the subordination of the Ministry of Transport 
by virtue of the Presidential Decree on the Measures to Improve Management of 
Transport and Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated February 22, 2007, and 
Decision No. 180 of the Cabinet of Ministers dated November 15, 2007, whose 
responsibilities were transferred from the Road Transport Service Department 
LLC within the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, which was established by the 
Order of the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower (Order No. 03) dated June 23, 
2003. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“EIA(s)” means the Borrower’s environmental impact assessment, acceptable to 
the Bank consisting of inter alia: (i) a description of the site where construction 
activities are to be carried out under Part A of the Project and the justification for 
said activities; (ii) the actual or potential environmental impact of the 
construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) an 
environmental management plan setting forth adequate mitigating measures and 
systems required to monitor the implementation of the construction activities 
referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above and to ensure compliance of such 
activities with said measures with a view to limiting any actual and potential 
adverse environmental impact. 
 
6. 
“EMF” means the Environmental Management Framework, dated November 16, 
2005, outlining the procedures for the environmental screening, management, 
consultation and disclosure related to the selection of the road sections under the 
Project. 
 
7. 
“EMP(s)” means the Borrower’s site specific environmental management 
plan(s), acceptable to the Bank prepared or to be prepared by the Borrower 
during the Project implementation in accordance with the EMF and approved by 
- 17 - 
  
the Bank, describing environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional 
measures for selected road sections under the Project. 
 
8. 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement; as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Financing Agreement” includes 
all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
10. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
PIU on account of reasonable and necessary activities directly related to the 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
travel and salaries, but excluding the salaries of the civil servants, and any other 
expenditures that may be agreed upon by the Bank. 
 
11. 
“Manat” means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
12. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
13. 
“Ministry of Transport” means the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
14. 
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project adopted by 
the Borrower and ARS acceptable to the Bank, outlining, inter alia, the 
institutional, disbursement, procurement, and environmental and social 
management arrangements for the implementation of the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with approval of the Bank, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Operational Manual. 
 
15. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit as established by the Borrower’s 
internal order (Order No. 59k) dated August 14, 2003 within the ARS. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 6, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
- 18 - 
  
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“Project Account” means the project account used for the Borrower’s counterpart 
financing for the Project, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“RAP(s)” means the resettlement action plan(s) to be prepared by the Borrower 
for selected road sections under Part A of the Project, setting out, inter alia, the 
principles and objectives of the RAP, the affected persons’ eligibility criteria, 
compensation, assistance and rehabilitation entitlements and procedures, as well 
as the monitoring and reporting arrangements in conformity with the RPF. 
 
20. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated February 5, 2010, 
defining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons under Part A of the Project and describing the policies, 
procedures, plans and actions (including the resettlement action plan), and 
institutional measures related to land acquisition and other social impacts that 
may arise during the Project and other phases related to the Project, and 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
21. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the ARS. 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
- 19 - 
  
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
