 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7978-PE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the National Rural Water Supply  
and Sanitation Project - PRONASAR) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 14, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 14, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF PERU 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for Parts 
A.3, A.4, A.5 and D of the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s Director of 
Public Indebtedness or any person whom any of them shall designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
- 2 - 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project (as set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement) through VMCS and UGP in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
General Sanitation Services Law or the Municipal Organic Law or any provision 
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Operational Manual 2010, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been adopted by the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing, Construction and 
Sanitation through a Ministerial Resolution. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on June 11, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the 
Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, represent the 
Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are 
considered of an administrative and non-financial nature.  The signing by such 
Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation by the 
Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is considered to be 
administrative and non-financial in nature.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile: 
(511)  626-9921  
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ismael Benavides Ferreyros 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the sustainable use of water supply and 
sanitation facilities in rural areas and small towns in the territory of the Borrower while 
emphasizing improvements in hygiene practices and training in operation and 
maintenance. 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the Project consists of Parts A.3, A.4, A.5 and D 
of the Original Project without modifications, as set forth below: 
 
Part A: Water Supply and Sanitation in Rural Areas 
 
3. 
Rural Subprojects for the Rehabilitation and Expansion of Water Supply and 
Sanitation Services 
 
 
Rehabilitation and expansion of piped water supply and sanitation services for 
Communities in the Initial Project Area and in the Expanded Project Area. 
 
4. 
Rural Subprojects for the Construction of Water Supply and Sanitation Services 
 
 
Construction of water supply and sanitation services for Communities including 
piped networks with house connections and/or multi-family taps, improved point sources 
and non-conventional technologies in the Initial Project Area and in the Expanded Project 
Area. 
 
5. 
Technical Assistance to District Municipalities and Communities 
 
 
Provision of technical assistance for the rehabilitation, expansion and/or 
construction of water supply and sanitation services through OTSs and OSs in favor of: 
 
 
(a) 
JASSs, by providing training in the areas of accounting, administration 
system repair operation and maintenance of the systems and hygiene education; and 
 
 
(b) 
District Municipalities for the purposes of long-term administrative and 
technical support to JASSs. 
 
Part D: Project Management 
 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to support the operation of UGP and its 
regional offices for Project management, including external audits, and monitoring and 
evaluation systems. 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, until completion of the Project, the UGP as the Project 
management unit within VMCS responsible for overall Project planning, 
implementing, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including: (i) 
preparing Annual Implementation Programs; (ii) issuing Project 
implementation guidelines on priorities in targeted regions and viable 
packaging of contracts; (iii) providing training and guidance to Regional 
Governments, District Municipalities, DNS, OTSs and OSs; (iv) 
maintaining the Project monitoring system; (v) updating the Procurement 
Plan and preparing the terms of reference and short lists for consultants’ 
services; and (vi) the procurement processes (including prior review 
thresholds) of the goods, works and services of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that the UGP is staffed, at all times during the execution of the 
Project, by core professional staff in structure, in numbers and with 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and selected in accordance 
with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the Bank, all 
as prescribed in the Operational Manual 2010. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, 
the Project Steering Committee, which shall convene at least once every year and 
shall submit minutes of said meetings to the Bank. 
 
B. 
Operational Manual 2010 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through VMCS and UGP, shall carry out the Project or cause the 
Project to be carried out in accordance with a manual (the Operational Manual 
2010), including the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the 
Annual Implementation Program, the Procurement Plan and the Performance 
Indicators. 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
2. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through VMCS and 
UGP, shall not amend or waive the Operational Manual 2010 or any provision 
thereof without the Bank’s prior written approval.  In case of any conflict 
between the terms of the Operational Manual 2010 and those of this Agreement, 
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through VMCS and UGP, shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management 
Framework. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Prior to the approval of any proposed Rural Subproject, the Borrower 
(through VMCS and UGP), shall ensure that the OTS gives full support 
for the establishment of the JASSs, as needed, and applies the ESMF, in 
order to: 
 
(i)   
carry out an environmental and social screening and assessment 
of such proposed Rural Subproject; and 
 
(ii)   
prepare a plan for the prevention, mitigation and remediation of 
any potential environmental or social consequences arising from 
the implementation of such proposed Rural Subproject. 
 
(b) 
During the implementation of any Rural Subproject, the Borrower 
(through VMCS and UGP), shall ensure that OTS carries out the plans 
referred to in subparagraph (a) (ii) above as prescribed in the Operational 
Manual 2010, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
Rural Subprojects  
 
1. 
With respect to Rural Subprojects, the Borrower: 
 
(a) 
through the UGP, shall enter into and thereafter implement: (i) contracts 
with OSs (Rural OS Contracts) under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the purposes of ensuring the cooperation of such OSs in the 
supervision of Rural Subprojects by providing continuous supervision, 
organization, training and education services to JASSs for the carrying 
out of Rural Subprojects; (ii) contracts with OTSs (Rural OTS 
Contracts), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
- 8 - 
purposes of ensuring the cooperation of such OTSs in the 
implementation of Rural Subprojects by providing services to the JASSs, 
Communities and District Municipalities for the carrying out of Rural 
Subprojects; and (iii) contracts with Work Contractors (Work Contractor 
Contracts) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
purposes of carrying out works under a Rural Subproject; and 
 
(b) 
through VMCS, shall enter into and thereafter implement:  (i) 
agreements with District Municipalities (Rural Framework Agreements) 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes of 
carrying out Rural Subprojects; and (ii) agreements with District 
Municipalities and JASSs (Rural Cofinancing Agreements) under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of cofinancing 
and executing Rural Subprojects. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through VMCS and UGP, shall ensure that the relevant OSs, 
OTS, Work Contractors, District Municipalities and JASSs exercise their 
respective rights and carry out their respective obligations under each Rural OS 
Contract, Rural OTS Contract, Work Contractor Contract, Rural Framework 
Agreement, and Rural Cofinancing Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower (through 
VMCS and UGP) shall ensure that OSs, OTSs, Work Contractors, District 
Municipalities and JASSs do not assign, terminate, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce any such Contract or Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
The Rural OS Contracts, the Rural OTS Contracts, the Work Contractor 
Contracts, the Rural Framework Agreements, and the Rural Cofinancing 
Agreements for the carrying out of Rural Subprojects shall be concluded under 
terms and conditions described in more detail in the Operational Manual 2010 
and shall include the following: 
 
(a)  
a copy of the approved Rural Subproject with its budget, its execution 
timetable, and its performance indicators; 
 
(b) 
the obligation of each of the relevant OSs, OTSs, Work Contractors, 
District Municipalities and JASSs, as the case may be under each 
respective Contract or Agreement, to:  (i) carry out the activities with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, 
financial, engineering, social and environmental standards and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual 2010 and the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower; (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with simple and sound accounting practices defined in the 
Operational Manual 2010, the operations, resources and expenditures in 
- 9 - 
respect of the relevant Rural Subproject; (iii) maintain adequate reporting 
in accordance with the standards specified in the Operational Manual 
2010; and (iv) make a minimum contribution to the total investment 
costs as defined in the Operational Manual 2010; 
 
(c) 
the requirement that:  (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Loan for the Rural Subprojects shall be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of activities financed by the relevant 
Rural Subproject; 
 
(d) 
the right of VMCS to inspect, by itself or jointly with UGP and the Bank, 
if the Bank shall so request, during the implementation of the Project, the 
goods, works, sites and constructions included in the activities financed 
by the Rural Subprojects, the operations thereof and any relevant records 
and documents; 
 
(e) 
the right of VMCS to obtain all information as VMCS, UGP or the Bank 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the activities financed under the Rural 
Subprojects; and 
 
(f) 
(i) the right of the VMCS and the UGP to suspend and terminate the right 
of any OS, OTS, Work Contractor, District Municipality, or JASS to use 
the amount of proceeds of the respective Contract or Agreement, as the 
case may be; and (ii) the obligation of any OS, OTS, Work Contractor, 
JASS, or District Municipality, as the case may be, to refund all or any 
part of the amount of the proceeds of the respective Contract or 
Agreement then withdrawn to UGP or VMCS as the case may be, all 
upon failure by the respective OS, OTS, Work Contractor, JASS, or 
District Municipality to perform any of their respective obligations under 
said Contracts and Agreements. 
 
4. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of said Contracts or Agreements and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
F. 
Annual Project Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through UGP shall: 
 
(a) 
no later than March 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
contract physical audits for the previous year of Project implementation, 
with independent auditors of experience and qualifications satisfactory to 
the Bank operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
- 10 - 
such audits to focus on a sample of Rural Subprojects, so as to review 
individual Contracts and Agreements, ascertain compliance with their 
terms and conditions, inspect physical progress of civil works and 
reconcile it with financial expenses incurred, and verify compliance with 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework. 
 
(b) 
no later than July 31 of each year during Project implementation, furnish 
to the Bank the report of such audits by said auditors. 
 
G. 
Annual Implementation Programs and Procurement Plan Annual Updates 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the UGP shall: 
 
(i) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about November 30 of each year 
during 
Project 
implementation, 
the 
updated 
Annual 
Implementation Program and the annual update for the 
Procurement Plan, both satisfactory to the Bank, detailing all 
activities to be financed under the Project as well as all 
procurement activities for the Project for the following year; and 
 
(ii) 
review with the Bank by December 31 of each year during 
Project implementation or such other date as the Bank shall 
request, the updated Annual Implementation Program and the 
updated Procurement Plan referred to in subparagraph (i) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Annual Implementation Program 
and 
the 
updated 
Procurement 
Plan 
based 
on 
the 
recommendations set forth in said updated documents and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the updated Annual 
Implementation Program or the updated Procurement Plan and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through VMCS and UGP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress 
of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Performance 
Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
 
- 11 - 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through VMCS and UGP, shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through VMCS and UGP, shall have its Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period.  
 
4. 
No later than March 31, 2012 or such other date as the Bank may agree, the 
Borrower  shall contract the auditors for purposes of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia, that the contract shall be for audits covering the fiscal years of 2011 
through 2013. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
4. 
Special Provisions.    
 
(a) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set 
forth in this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following 
provisions shall govern all procurement of goods and works with 
National Competitive Bidding procedures under Section III. B.2 (a) of 
this Schedule: 
 
(i) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
 
(ii) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the 
bidding documents or used for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
(iii) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be 
quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
 
(iv) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National 
Competitive Bidding without restriction and shall not be subject 
to any unjustified requirement which will affect their ability to 
bid such as, but not limited to, the requirement to authenticate 
their bidding documents or any documentation related to such 
bidding documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a prerequisite 
of bidding. 
 
(v) 
The Borrower shall utilize standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any provision set forth 
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions 
shall govern all employment of consultants referred to in Section III.C of 
this Schedule: 
 
(i) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered 
as a condition of participation in the selection process. 
 
(ii) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate any 
documentation related to their participation in the selection 
process with either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a condition of 
participation in said selection process. 
 
- 13 - 
(iii) 
The Borrower shall use standard requests for proposals and 
standard evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank. 
(iv) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be 
required to pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association 
that are different from those required for Peruvian consultants. 
 
(v) 
No consultant hired for the Project, at the time he or she is 
carrying out his or her contractual obligations as a consultant, 
may hold civil service office or any other position in any agency 
of the Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-
entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his 
or her consulting services. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Least Cost Selection 
(e) Single-source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
E. 
Annual Procurement Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the UGP shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than March 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
contract annual procurement audits for previous year of Project 
implementation, 
with 
independent 
auditors 
of 
experience 
and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank operating under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and have all the procurement records and 
documentation for each fiscal year of the Project audited, in accordance 
with appropriate procurement auditing principles; 
 
(b) 
not later than July 31 of each year during Project implementation, furnish 
to the Bank the procurement audit report of such audit by said auditors 
(covering the previous calendar year), of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank or to said auditors such other information concerning 
said procurement records and documentation as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request; and 
 
(d) 
no later than September 15 of each year during Project implementation, 
discuss the results of such audits with the Bank and take into account the 
Bank’s comments thereon. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) Goods and works for 
 
Community Subprojects as
 
defined in the Original 
Loan  Agreement 
 
 
-- 
 
Not applicable 
(2) Works for Small Town 
 
Subprojects as defined in 
the Original Loan Agreement 
 
 
-- 
 
Not applicable 
(3) Goods (other than those 
for  Rural Subprojects) 
 
300,000 
100% of Foreign 
Expenditures and 80% of 
Local Expenditures 
(4) Consultants’ services and 
 
audits 
 
 
2,870,000 
 
80% 
(5) Fee payable under Section 
 
2.04 of the Original Loan 
 
Agreement 
 
 
-- 
 
Not applicable 
(6) Goods and works for Rural 
 
Subprojects 
 
26,650,000 
 
60% 
(7) Training 
 
 
180,000 
80% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
30,000,000 
 
 
- 16 - 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after July 22, 2010 (but in no case more than one year from the date of 
this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (3), (4), (6) 
and (7).   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
- 17 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On April 15, 2022 
70% 
On October 15, 2022 
30% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
- 18 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
- 19 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Agreements” means any, some or all of the following:  Rural Cofinancing 
Agreements, and Rural Framework Agreements. 
2. 
“Annual Implementation Program” means any of the programs referred to in 
Section I.G of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Community” or “Communities” means any rural community or communities in 
the territory of the Borrower that meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual 2010. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
7. 
“Contracts” means any, some or all of the following:  Rural OS Contracts, Rural 
OTS Contracts and Work Contractor Contracts. 
 
8. 
“Department” means Departamento, any of the political subdivisions of the 
territory of the Borrower established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 26922, 
dated February 3, 1998. 
 
9. 
“District Municipality” means Municipalidad Distrital, any of the political 
subdivisions of the territory of the Borrower established pursuant to paragraph 3 
of Article 4 of the Borrower’s Municipal Organic Law (No. 27972, dated May 
26, 2003). 
 
10. 
“DNS” means Dirección Nacional de Saneamiento, the Borrower’s National 
Sanitation Directorate within VMCS. 
 
 
 
 
- 20 - 
11. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
Borrower’s framework for managing the environmental and social aspects of the 
Project, as annexed to the Operational Manual 2010, which framework includes 
provisions necessary to comply with the following Bank’s Operational Policies: 
4.01, 
4.11, 
and 
4.10, 
as 
said 
policies 
are 
published 
under 
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual as of the date of this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Expanded Project Area” means the area comprised by the Borrower’s 
Departments of Amazonas, Ancash, Apurimac, Cajamarca, Cusco, Ica, 
Lambayeque, Loreto, Madre de Dios, Puno, San Martin, and Ucayali, and any 
other Department which may be acceptable to the Bank in addition to, or in 
substitution of, the above Departments. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
14. 
“General Sanitation Services Law” means the Borrower’s Law No. 26338 of July 
24, 1994, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Initial Project Area” means the area comprised by the Borrower’s Departments 
of Arequipa, Ayacucho, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Junín, Lima, Pasco and Piura. 
 
16. 
“JASS” means Junta Administradora de Servicios de Saneamiento, any 
community users’ association of water supply and sanitation services operating in 
the Initial Project Area or in the Expanded Project Area and registered with 
MVCS by the concerned District Municipality for purposes of the 
implementation of Rural Subprojects. 
 
17. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance. 
 
18. 
“Municipal Organic Law” means the Borrower’s Law No. 27972, dated May 26, 
2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“MVCS” means Ministerio de Vivienda, Construcción y Saneamiento, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Housing, Construction and Sanitation. 
 
20. 
“NGO” means any non-governmental organization (with legal personality) 
operating in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
21. 
“Operational Manual 2010” means the Project operational manual acceptable to 
the Bank and to be adopted by the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing, Construction 
and Sanitation through a Ministerial Resolution, referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including: (i) Project institutional setup, including 
organization and functions of VMCS, UGP and Project Steering Committee; (ii) 
- 21 - 
disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures; (iii) procurement 
responsibilities, processes and internal controls; (iv) monitoring and evaluation 
plans for the Project; (v) Rural Subprojects cycle, including pre-investment, 
investment and post-investment activities; (vi) roles and responsibilities of 
VMCS, UGP, DNS, District Municipalities, JASSs, OTSs, OSs and Work 
Contractors; (vii) eligibility and cost-recovery requirements; (viii) the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework; (ix) models for Contracts 
and Agreements; and (x) the Performance Indicators. 
 
22. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank for the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, dated 
September 13, 2002, as amended and restated on May 5, 2006 and as further 
amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7142-PE). 
 
23. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
 
24. 
“OS” means Operador Supervisor, any Project supervising operator (including 
NGOs, private firms, or individuals) that is selected by the UGP for the 
implementation of Rural Subprojects, in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual 2010. 
 
25. 
“OTS” means Operador Técnico Social, any technical and social operator, 
including NGOs and private firms, that is selected by the UGP for the 
implementation of Rural Subprojects, in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual 2010. 
 
26. 
“Performance Indicators” means the Project performance indicators set forth in 
the Operational Manual 2010. 
 
27. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
28. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 21, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
29. 
“Project Steering Committee” means Comité de Coordinación del Proyecto, the 
highest oversight and advisory body for the Project headed by the Borrower’s 
Vice-Minister of Construction and Sanitation and comprising representatives 
from MEF, VMCS and UGP. 
 
- 22 - 
30. 
“Regional Government” means Gobierno Regional, any of the political 
subdivisions of the territory of the Borrower established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Regional Governments Organic Law No. 27867, dated November 18, 
2002, as amended  to the date of this Agreement. 
 
31. 
“Rural Cofinancing Agreement” means any agreement executed among VMCS, a 
District Municipality and a JASS for the co-financing and the execution of a 
Rural Subproject. 
 
32. 
“Rural Framework Agreement” means any agreement executed between VMCS 
and a District Municipality for the general carrying out of Rural Subprojects. 
 
33. 
“Rural OS Contract” means any contracts executed between VMCS, through 
UGP, and an OS for the supervision of a Rural Subproject. 
 
34. 
“Rural OTS Contract” means any of the contracts executed between VMCS 
(through UGP) and an OTS for the carrying out of, inter alia, technical 
assistance, sanitary and hygiene education, feasibility studies, capacity-building 
activities, social promotion, final designs, acquisition of construction materials, 
works delivery and liquidation and post-investment technical assistance related to 
a Rural Subproject. 
 
35. 
“Rural Subproject” means any investment subproject for the benefit of 
Communities to be carried out under Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project. 
 
36. 
“Training” means the reasonable costs of:  (i) training materials and rental of 
training facilities and equipment; (ii) tuition fees, travel and per-diem of trainers 
and trainees; and (iii) any other expenses related to training (including study 
tours and workshops) to be carried out under the Project. 
 
37. 
“UGP” means Unidad de Gestión del Proyecto, the Project management unit 
within the Borrower’s Water For All Program (Programa Agua Para Todos) of 
the VMCS (or any other program of the VMCS satisfactory to the Bank) in 
charge of the day-to-day management of the Project. 
 
38. 
“VMCS” means Viceministerio de Construcción y Saneamiento, the Borrower’s 
Vice Ministry of Construction and Sanitation within MVCS. 
 
39. 
“Work Contractor” means Contratista para la Obra, any contractor, including 
NGOs and private firms that is selected by UGP for the carrying out of Works for 
Rural Subprojects, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual 2010. 
 
- 23 - 
40. 
“Work Contractor Contract” means any of the contracts executed between 
VMCS (through UGP) and a Work Contractor for the carrying out of works for a 
Rural Subproject. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
 
 
 
- 24 - 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
