  
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7857-EG 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Additional Financing for Second National Drainage Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
Dated June 13, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
LOAN NUMBER 7857-EG 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated June 13, 2010, between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement or in Section 1.02 of the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Unites States Dollars 
(US$30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“the Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement (“the Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is 
EPADP, Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (the project 
implementing agency).  
 
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time  for each Interest Period shall be at 
a rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions.  
 
  
- 2 - 
 
 
2.05. The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the 
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect of the Loan. 
 
  
- 3 - 
 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through EPADP in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
This Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence 
acceptable to it that all necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by 
the Borrower. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement or such later date established by the Bank in 
accordance with the Section 9.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the Assistant to 
the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8 Adly Street, 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
(202) 2391-5167 
 
  
- 4 - 
 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ A. David Craig 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
  
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the efficiency of drainage for an 
additional 90,000 feddans of irrigated land to increase the total area to about 1.0 million 
feddans; (b) to increase agricultural production and improve rural income; and (c) to 
identify and oversee the resolution of environmental issues resulting from the discharge 
into the open drains of untreated industrial and domestic waste water in the project area.  
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts:  
 
Part A: Drainage Works:  
 
1. 
Provision of subsurface drainage for an additional area of about 35,000 feddans 
located in old cultivated lands. 
 
2. 
Renewal and rehabilitation of old malfunctioning subsurface drainage for about 
55,000 feddans. 
 
3. 
Deepening and remodeling of selected existing main and secondary open surface 
drain to be determined on a demand priority basis. 
 
Part B: Equipment and Materials: 
 
1. 
Provision of emergency pumping units. 
 
2. 
Provision of machinery required for appropriate maintenance of drainage centers. 
 
3. 
Provision of spare parts required for heavy machinery and equipment and for 
pipe production factories. 
 
Part C: Technical support: 
 
Provision of technical services required to strengthen EPADP’s institutional 
capacity including: (a) environmental management and awareness activities; (b) 
drainage advisory services; (c) operations and maintenance, and improvement of 
EPADP’s management information systems; and (d) auditing of the Project 
accounts. 
  
 
 
  
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Overall responsibility for coordination of all project activities shall be vested in 
EPADP, which shall be assisted by the Project Management Team. 
 
2. 
To ensure the proper coordination of the execution of the Project, the Borrower 
shall, through EPADP, establish a Project steering committee by December 31, 
2010, comprising representatives of relevant departments including, inter alia, the 
Ministry of Water resources and Irrigation, the Ministry of Finance, and the 
Ministry of International Cooperation.  
 
B. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption 
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants, dated October 
15, 2006. 
 
C. 
Safeguards 
 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the EMP.  
 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through EPADP and in cooperation with the concerned 
authorities, shall ensure that any acquisition of land or other assets from 
Project affected persons (if any) and/or the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of such persons and the compensation thereof are carried 
out in accordance with the requirements set forth in the RPF. 
 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through EPADP monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 (b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with 
the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end 
of the period covered by such report. 
 
 
  
- 7 - 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than September 30, 2013. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through EPADP, maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through EPADP, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through EPADP, have the Project’s Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Audit services. All Audit services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
  
- 8 - 
 
 
B. 
Particular Method of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
 Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Limited International Bidding  
 
(b) National Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in paragraph 3 below. 
(c) Shopping 
(d) Direct Contracting 
 
3. 
The draft bidding documents for goods and works to be procured through NCB 
shall incorporate the principles established in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines; they shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Audit Services 
 
Least-Cost Selection. Audit services shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Least-Cost Selection.  
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may, through EPADP, withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this 
Section, and such additional arrangements as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made 
 
  
- 9 - 
 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such arrangements), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) 
Works  
 
25,700,000 
65% 
(2) 
Goods 
 
 
 
2,210,000 
100% 
for 
foreign 
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost) and 85% for local 
expenditures 
(3) 
Audit services 
 
15,000 
100% 
(4) 
Premia for Interest 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
  
-0- 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 of this Agreement.  
 
(5) 
Front-end Fee 
 
75,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(6) 
Unallocated 
 
2,000,000 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
 
30,000,000 
 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2013. 
 
 
  
- 10 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 1 and November 1 
 
 
Beginning May 1, 2017  
 
through November 1, 2037 
 
 
 
 
2.33% 
 
 
On May 1, 2038 
 
2.14% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
 
  
- 11 - 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
  
- 12 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
3. 
“Environmental Management Plan or EMP” means the environmental 
management plan furnished to the Bank in April 2001 for the Original Project  
and subsequently updated  on January 14, 2010, as such plan may be updated 
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, setting forth 
the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the 
implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse 
environmental and social impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank. 
4. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
5. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for a Second National 
Drainage Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated November 26, 2000 
as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No 4562-EGT). 
 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
7. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 18, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraph. 
 
9. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
policy framework for the Project, furnished to the Bank on January 14, 2010, as 
such framework may be amended from time to time by agreement of the 
Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the rules, procedures and guidelines for the 
acquisition of land and/or other assets from Project affected persons (if any) 
 
  
- 13 - 
 
and/or the resettlement and rehabilitation of such persons and the compensation 
thereof. 
