CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7887-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Upper Secondary Education Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 9, 2010                               
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER      7887-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 9, 2010, entered into between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”) represented by Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, its Ministry of Finance 
and Public Credit (SCHP) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth in the 
table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program), 
shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary and 
public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred million Dollars ($700,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy 
framework and its satisfactory implementation of the Program, the Borrower may 
withdraw or may cause NAFIN to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower’s representative 
designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the Borrower’s 
representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
pursuant to this Section is the Director de Organismos Financieros Internacionales of 
NAFIN or any person or persons whom such representative shall designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%).  
 
-2- 
 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower (through SEP) declares its commitment to the Program and its  results.  To 
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
-3- 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic framework and the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower (through NAFIN) shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved 
in the implementation of the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall or shall cause NAFIN to promptly inform the Bank of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
(a)  
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de 
 
Mandato) among SHCP, SEP and NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and SEP, shall cooperate fully with NAFIN 
to ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SHCP and SEP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any 
provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict between the terms 
of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
-4- 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) the Contrato de Mandato has been executed by the parties thereto; and  
 
(b) The Bank is satisfied with the results achieved by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Borrower 
(through separate legal opinions from SHCP and SEP) and NAFIN (in a separate legal 
opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank), 
indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and NAFIN in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato’s terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on November 
11, 2011.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s representative is the 
Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP. 
 
6.02. 
Unless the Borrower’s representative designated in Section 6.01 above otherwise informs 
the Bank, the Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General 
Conditions is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
 
-5- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. The Borrower, through SEP, has established a National Upper Secondary Education 
System and established the institutional basis of said system, as evidenced by the 
State Agreements.  
 
2. The Borrower, through SEP, has established the set of minimum competences by subject 
that students need to achieve by the end of upper secondary education in the National 
Upper Secondary Education System, as evidenced by Agreement 486, issued by SEP, 
and published in the Official Gazette on April 30, 2009. 
 
3. The Borrower, through SEP, has established a national evaluation system for the National 
Upper Secondary Education System, as evidenced by the coordination guidelines 
agreed between the Borrower’s Under-Ministry for upper secondary education and 
INEE dated July 24, 2009. 
 
4. The Borrower, through SEP, in collaboration with UPN and ANNUIES, has developed 
an Upper Secondary Education Teacher Training Program (Programa de Formación 
Docente de Educación Media Superior –PROFORDEMS) which is benefiting 
teachers from all States, as evidenced by the execution agreement celebrated between 
SEP, ANUIES and CONALEP dated January 27, 2009 and a letter dated March 19, 
2010 from SEP’s Coordinator of Academic Development (in SEP’s Under-Ministry 
for Upper Secondary Education) detailing the amount of teachers that have been 
certified in each State.  
 
5. The Borrower, through SEP, has decided to establish a civil association (COPEEMS) to 
evaluate the entry of schools in the National Upper Secondary Education System, and 
has issued the guidelines for the by-laws of said civil association, as evidenced by 
Agreement No. 3 of the Borrower’s Executive Committee for the National Upper 
Secondary Education System dated August 26, 2009. 
 
6. The Borrower, through SEP, has consolidated its scholarship programs targeting poor 
students who are not covered by the Oportunidades Program or by any other 
scholarship program of the Borrower, as evidenced by the Borrower’s SEP 
Agreement 479 published in the Official Gazette on December 31, 2008. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  The Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
-7- 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee and any Premia for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars) is allocated in a 
single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan 
proceeds.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
C.
 
Withdr
awal 
Tranch
e
Release 
Conditi
ons. 
No 
withdra
wal 
shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the 
Program carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with its laws and shall not use them to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank 
determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the 
Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
F. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
698,250,000 
 
Front-end Fee 
1,750,000 
Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars (amounts due under section 2.07 (c) of 
this Agreement) 
 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
700,000,000 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on December 15, 2027. 
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“ANUIES” means Asociación Nacional de Universidades e Instituciones de Educación 
Superior de la República Mexicana, A.C., (National Association of Universities and 
Institutions for Tertiary Education of the Mexican Republic), a civil association 
constituted and registered under the laws of the Borrower. 
 
2. 
“CONALEP” means Colegio Nacional de Educación Profesional Técnica (National 
School for Technical Education), a decentralized public entity of the Borrower, with 
separate legal personality, created by a Borrower’s Decree published in the Official 
Gazette on December 29, 1978 (as amended by an amendment dated November 22, 1993 
published in the Official Gazette on November 22 1993 December 8, 1993). 
3. 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the contract referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
“COPEEMS” means Consejo para la Evaluación de la Educación Media Superior, A.C. 
(National Council for the Evaluation of Upper Secondary Education), a civil association 
of the Borrower. 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
-10- 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
-11- 
 
7. 
“INEE” means Instituto Nacional para la Evaluación de la Educación, the Borrower’s 
National Institute for the Evaluation of Education, a decentralized public entity of the 
Borrower, created through a Borrower’s Decree published in the Official Gazette on 
August 8, 2002. 
8. 
“NAFIN” means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Mexican development bank serving as 
the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any successor thereto 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
9. 
“National Upper Secondary Education System” means the Borrower’s national upper 
secondary education system (Sistema Nacional de Bachillerato) created by Agreement 
442, issued by SEP, and published in the Official Gazette on September 26, 2008. 
 
10. 
“Official Gazette” means the Diario Oficial de la Federación, the Borrower’s official 
gazette. 
 
11. 
“Oportunidades Program” means the Borrower’s program to assist poor families through 
the provision of cash transfers conditional on compliance with the conditions referred to 
in the operational rules in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 29, 2009. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support the 
reform to the Borrower’s national upper secondary education system set forth in the letter 
dated March 18, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank, which includes measures 
implemented by the Borrower during 2008 and 2009 (as described in Schedule 1, Section 
1 to this Loan Agreement) declaring the Borrower’s commitment thereto.  
 
13. 
“SEP” means Secretaría de Educación Pública, the Borrower’s Ministry of Public 
Education. 
 
14. 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance and Public Credit. 
 
15. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“State” means any of the geopolitical subdivisions (Estados) of the Borrower.  
 
17. 
“State Agreements” means (i) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, 
the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Aguascalientes dated January 5, 2009; (ii) 
the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and 
the State of Baja California Sur dated August 17, 2009; (iii) the agreement entered into 
between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Campeche 
dated May 11, 2009; (iv) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the 
Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Chiapas dated February 23, 2009; (v) the 
agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the 
State of Chihuahua dated July 13, 2009; (vi) the agreement entered into between, among 
other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Coahuila dated February 27, 
-12- 
 
2009; (vii) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, 
through SEP, and the State of Colima dated February 10, 2009; (viii) the agreement 
entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of 
Durango dated August 26, 2009; (ix) the agreement entered into between, among other 
parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Mexico dated June 30, 20009; (x) 
the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and 
the State of Guanajuato dated May 6, 2009; (xi) the agreement entered into between, 
among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Guerrero dated May 6, 
2009; (xii) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, 
through SEP, and the State of Hidalgo dated September 2, 2009; (xiii) the agreement 
entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of 
Jalisco dated May 6, 2009; (xiv) the agreement entered into between, among other 
parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Michoacán dated September 1, 2009; 
(xv) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through 
SEP, and the State of Morelos dated June 30, 2009; (xvi) the agreement entered into 
between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Nayarit dated 
May 20, 2009; (xvii) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the 
Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Nuevo Leon dated August 12, 2009; (xviii) the 
agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the 
State of Oaxaca dated September 15, 2009; (xix) the agreement entered into between, 
among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Puebla dated August 
17, 2009; (xx) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, 
through SEP, and the State of Queretaro dated June 22, 2009; (xxi) the agreement entered 
into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Quintana 
Roo dated September 7, 2009; (xxii) the agreement entered into between, among other 
parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of San Luis Potosi dated July 6, 2009; 
(xxiii) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through 
SEP, and the State of Sinaloa dated August 25, 2009; (xxiv) the agreement entered into 
between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Sonora dated 
November 30, 2009, (xxv) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the 
Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Tabasco dated August 26, 2009; (xxvi) the 
agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the 
State of Tamaulipas dated August 25, 2009; (xxvii) the agreement entered into between, 
among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Tlaxcala dated May 21, 
2009; (xxviii) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, 
through SEP, and the State of Veracruz dated May 20, 2009; (xxix) the agreement 
entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of 
Yucatan dated December 12, 2008; and (xxx) the agreement entered into between, among 
other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Zacatecas dated May 6, 2009. 
 
18. 
“UPN” means Universidad Pedagógica Nacional (National Pedagogic University), a 
public university of the Borrower. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
-13- 
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
-14- 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put, other than to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   
 
