CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7924-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Capacity Building for Industrial Pollution Management Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 22, 2010  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 22, 2010, between INDIA, acting by its  
President (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). 
 
The Borrower has also requested the International Development Association 
(“Association”) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the project 
(“Project”) described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and by an agreement of even date 
between the Borrower and the Association (“Financing Agreement”), the Association is 
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equal to twenty five 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 25,700,000) (“Credit”). 
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty five million two hundred ten 
thousand Dollars ($25,210,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
2
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out, through its Ministry of Environment and 
Forests, Parts 1.a and 3 of the Project and cause Parts 1.b, 1.c, 2.a, and 3 and 
Parts 1.b, 1.c, 2.b, and 3 of the Project respectively to be carried out by the States 
of Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal (“Project States”) in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreements. 
 
3
3.02. 
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to each of 
the Project States. 
 
3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement (other 
than the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following: Secretary; Additional 
Secretary; Joint Secretary; Director; Deputy Secretary; or Under Secretary of the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, India 
 
Facsimile: 
 
91-11-23092039 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
4
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
5
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ Anup K. Pujari 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ N. Roberto Zagha 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to build tangible human and technical 
capacity in selected state pollution control agencies of the Borrower for undertaking 
environmentally sound remediation of polluted sites; and (ii) to support the development 
of a policy, institutional and methodological framework for the Borrower to establish a 
National Program for Rehabilitation of Polluted Sites.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Strengthening 
Environmental 
Institutions: 
Building 
Capacity 
for 
Addressing Pollution Remediation  
 
Strengthening and integrating the institutional framework, including regulatory 
policies, management practices, and performance guidelines, for the Central 
Government and state governments in the remediation of polluted sites through 
the following activities: 
 
1.a. 
Developing a National Program for Rehabilitation of Polluted Sites and 
preparation of policies and plans to address the remediation and 
rehabilitation of contaminated hazardous waste sites. 
 
1.b. 
Establishing an environmental compliance assistance center to 
proactively promote and assist industries with environmental compliance 
in pollution management through the construction and provision of 
infrastructure facilities, and the provision of hardware support, 
information systems, a quick response desk, outreach programs, and 
training programs. 
 
1.c. 
Institutional capacity building of state pollution control boards. 
 
Part 2. Investments in Priority Remediation and Environmental Improvements in 
Orphan Hazardous Waste Sites and Municipal Dumps 
 
Developing and implementing remediation plans that minimize the environment 
and health risks to acceptable and safe levels by containing the migration of 
heavy metals and chemicals from contaminated soil as well as ground and 
surface water: 
 
2.a. 
Remediation of identified orphan polluted sites or municipal dump sites, 
or both, in Andhra Pradesh. 
 
7
2.b. 
Remediation of identified orphan polluted sites or municipal dumpsites, 
or both, in West Bengal. 
 
Part 3.  Project Management 
 
Support to the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Forests and the Project 
Implementation Units of Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal for carrying out the 
Project. 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall through its Ministry of Environment and Forests: 
(a) 
have overall responsibility for management and implementation of the 
Project and for achieving the project development objectives; 
(b) 
establish and maintain throughout the period of Project implementation a 
Project Oversight Committee, which shall be chaired by the Secretary of 
the Ministry of Environment and Forests or a designated official in the 
Secretary’s absence and which shall include designated representatives 
from the Central Pollution Control Board, the Planning Commission, the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry 
of Urban Development, the Ministry of Industry, and the chairpersons of 
the state steering committees as ex-officio members; 
(c) 
designate and maintain throughout the period of Project implementation 
a Project Director, who shall be responsible for the effective and timely 
coordination and implementation of project activities at the central level 
and provide guidance to the Project Implementation Units to be 
established in the Project States and engage such management 
consultants as may be necessary to assist the Project Director in the 
carrying out of responsibilities; 
(d) 
ensure that the Project’s activities are consistent with the Project 
Operational Manual; and 
(e) 
ensure that the Project Director shall have adequate decision-making 
authority required for the effective, efficient and timely implementation 
of the Project activities. 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
cause the State of Andhra Pradesh to carry out Parts 1.b, 1.c, 2.a, and 3 
of the Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, 
and the Project Operational Manual; and 
9
(b) 
cause the State of West Bengal to carry out Parts 1.b, 1.c, 2.b, and 3 of 
the Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, 
and the Project Operational Manual. 
3. 
To facilitate the carrying out of each Project State’s Respective Part of the 
Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan and Credit 
available to each Project State for the purpose of carrying out their respective 
portions of the Project in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements.  
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, which are included in the Project 
Operational Manual, and the Governance and Accountability Action Plan. 
C. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework and with the Environmental 
Management Plan(s) and Social Management Plan(s), including the provisions on 
resettlement and income restoration support, for the Project sites. 
D. 
Other Undertakings 
 
The Borrower shall contribute an adequate amount of its own resources for 
financing its Respective Part of the Project. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and, through 
its Ministry of Environment and Forests, prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of six (6) months in each Fiscal Year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Environment and Forests, cause each 
Project State and its respective state pollution control board to maintain a 
10 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
quarterly interim unaudited financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the Project. 
 
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through its Ministry of Environment and Forests, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter of each Fiscal 
Year, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project, including expenditures 
incurred by the Project States, covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements and the records and accounts 
for the designated account(s) referred to in Section 2.04 of the General 
Conditions for each Fiscal Year audited in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the Borrower.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Director and each Project State to have 
their respective Financial Statements for each Fiscal Year audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank no later than six (6) 
months after the end of each Fiscal Year, a consolidated report on audits 
containing annual consolidated audited financial statements and a summary of 
audit observations. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
consolidated report on audits as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, 
management consultants to assist the Project Director, including finance 
professionals with qualifications acceptable to the Bank and shall cause each 
Project State to have and maintain throughout the Project implementation period, 
a financial management cell at their respective Project Implementing Units with 
at least two (2) finance professionals with qualifications acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
11 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding subject to the following 
additional procedures: 
 
(a) 
the Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
procurement method may be used; and 
 
(b) 
standard bidding documents and procedures approved by the Bank shall 
be used. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)   
National Competitive Bidding, and the additional provisions agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank 
(b)   
Direct Contracting 
(c)   
Shopping 
(d)  
Force Account 
12 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection, subject to the 
following additional procedures: 
 
(a) 
the Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
procurement method may be used; and 
 
(b) 
standard Request for Proposal documents and procedures approved by 
the Bank shall be used. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least-Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Single-Source Selection 
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants as per the Consultant Guidelines 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
13 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects”, dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit (“Category”), the 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Credit to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each 
Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
Dollars) 
Amount of the 
Credit 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of 
Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for the 
Project (including training 
and workshops, and 
incremental operating costs) 
 
(a) Part 1 of the Project 
(Building Capacity for 
Remediation at Legacy 
Hazardous Waste Sites) 
 
(b) Part 2 of the Project 
(Investments in 
Hazardous Waste Sites) 
 
(c) Part 3 of the Project 
(Project Management) 
25,146,975 
 
9,425,000 
 
13,000,000 
 
2,900,000
85% 
(2) Refund of the Preparation 
Advance 
 
375,000
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.07(a) 
of the General 
Conditions 
14 
 
(3)  Front-end Fee 
     63,025
----- 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of 
this Agreement 
in accordance 
with Section 
2.07(b) of the 
General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
25,210,000
25,700,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent 
under the Loan and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,900,000 
equivalent under the Credit may be made for payments made prior to this date 
but on or after June 30, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2015. 
 
15 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 1 and December 1: 
Beginning December 1, 2015  
through June 1, 2040 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
16 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
17 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan adopted for each Project site 
and furnished to the Bank that sets forth the environmental protection measures 
for the Project, including mitigation measures for potential impacts to the 
surrounding community and cultural properties, as said plans may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
5. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the framework 
dated November 25, 2008 prepared by the Borrower for managing any negative 
environmental and social impacts from Project activities. 
 
6. 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time including all appendices, 
schedules and supplemental agreements supplemental to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning April 1 and ending 
March 31 the following year. 
 
8. 
“Governance and Accountability Action Plan” means the plan adopted by the 
Borrower and the Project States dated April 15, 2010, that sets forth the key 
actions to be undertaken to strengthen governance, transparency, and 
accountability under the Project, as such plan may be revised from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
18 
10. 
“Ministry of Environment and Forests” means the agency of the Borrower for the 
planning, promotion, coordination and overseeing the implementation of 
environmental and forestry programs. 
 
11. 
“Part” means a part of the Project as described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07(a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the 
letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on April 17, 2006 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on July 5, 2006.  
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 27, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Bank, the Association and 
each Project State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Project Director” means the director of the Project, employed by the Ministry of 
Environment and Forests. 
 
17. 
“Project Implementation Unit” means the unit established by each Project State 
for the day to day implementation of the Project and for coordination with 
stakeholder agencies. 
 
18. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s operational manual 
including subsequent amendments made with the Bank’s agreement that outlines 
various principles, rules, and procedures for implementing the Project, which 
includes the Procurement Plan and provisions on Project implementation by the 
Project States. 
 
19. 
“Project Oversight Committee” means the committee established by the Ministry 
of Environment and Forests to oversee the Project. 
 
20. 
“Project State” means the State of Andhra Pradesh or the State of West Bengal, 
or their respective successor(s), that is a party to the Project Agreement. 
 
19 
21. 
“Social Management Plan” means the plan adopted for each Project site and 
furnished to the Bank on November 25, 2008 that sets forth the social protection 
measures for the Project, including provisions on resettlement and income 
restoration support, as said plans may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
22. 
“State” means a state of India or any successor(s) thereto. 
 
23. 
“State Project Steering Committee” means the committee established by each 
Project State to oversee the implementation of Project activities in each State. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
20 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
