 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
  LOAN NUMBER 7958-BZ 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Municipal Development Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
BELIZE 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 2, 2010
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 2, 2010, between BELIZE (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifteen million dollars 
($15,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
-2- 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 of this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guideline, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal $ 3 million shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, under the overall coordination of the PSC, the Borrower, through the MED, 
shall cause BSIF to carry out: (a) Part A of the Project, with the participation of 
Participating TCCs (pursuant to the provisions of the corresponding Subproject 
Agreement); (b) Part B.1 of the Project, with the Participation of the TCCs 
-3- 
(pursuant to the provisions of the corresponding Subproject Agreement); (c) Part 
B.2 of the Project with the participation of MLLGRD and MNRE, respectively; 
and (d) Part C of the Project by itself, all pursuant to the provisions of the 
Subsidiary Agreement, and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
BSIF shall have failed to comply with any of its pertinent obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement.  
 
(b) 
The BSIF Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower and/or BSIF to perform any of their respective obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement and/or this Agreement.   
 
4.02.  The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraph (b) Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Borrower, through the PSC, has adopted the Project Operational 
Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, 
through MED, and BSIF. 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions 
-4- 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower, through MED, 
and BSIF and is legally binding upon the Borrower, through MED, and BSIF in 
accordance with its terms.  
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice upon the provisions of the General Conditions, the 
Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement, but in no case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s 
approval of the Loan which expire on March 16, 2012.   
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sir Edney Cain Building 
Belmopan 
Belize, Central America 
 
Facsimile:  
501-822 2886 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-5- 
AGREED at Belize City, Belize, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
BELIZE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Dean O. Barrow 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
-6- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve access to basic municipal infrastructure 
and to enhance the municipal management in selected town and city councils. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Municipal Infrastructure Investments 
 
Preparing and carrying out of specific development projects for municipal 
infrastructure (Subprojects) in the Participating TCCs.  
Part B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building for TCCs, MLLGRD and 
MNRE 
 
1. 
Strengthening of TCCs’ institutional and technical capacity related to investment 
planning and implementation, and municipal management, through, inter alia, 
the provision of technical assistance, goods and training to develop municipal 
growth plans, design and implement municipal financial management systems, 
carrying out revenue enhancement activities, and traffic management activities 
listed in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of the institutional and technical capacity of MLLGRD and MNRE 
through, inter alia, the provision of technical assistance, goods and training to: 
(a) the personnel of MLLGRD to support the TCCs in improving municipal 
management, developing improved financial management capacity, and 
supporting the MLLGRD in analyzing  municipal financial information for 
informed decision making; and (b) the personnel of MNRE to strengthen urban 
planning capacity, and to provide training and support to the Participating TCCs 
in developing municipal growth plans. 
 
Part C: Project Management  
 
 
Strengthening of the operational capacity of BSIF for implementation and 
 
management of the Project, to ensure compliance with fiduciary controls, 
 
supervision, monitoring and reporting, and compliance with social and 
 
environmental safeguards, through the provision of technical advisory 
 
services, training, operating costs, and acquisition of goods, including vehicles.  
-7- 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MED, shall maintain, throughout the implementation of 
the Project, a steering committee (the Project Steering Committee or PSC) with 
composition, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in 
the Project Operational Manual, for purposes of overseeing and coordinating the 
Project implementation. 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall cause BSIF to maintain, throughout Project 
 
implementation, an implementation unit (“PIU”) with composition, 
 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including the 
 
responsibility for the technical, fiduciary (i.e., financial  management 
 
and procurement), ensuring compliance with social and  environmental 
 
safeguards, and monitoring and evaluation aspects of the Project.  
 
(b) 
The PIU shall be headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by 
 
professional staff (including, inter alia, a procurement specialist, 
 
and a financial management specialist),  all in numbers and with terms of 
 
reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable  to the Bank.   
(c)  
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
 
PIU personnel  shall only be hired based on professional criteria and 
 
shall only be replaced for reasons related to performance. 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement  
 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through MED, shall enter 
into an agreement with BSIF (the Subsidiary Agreement) under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(a)  
The Borrower, through MED, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect 
 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
 
purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b)   
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,  
 
 
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary  
 
 
Agreement or any of their provisions. 
-8- 
 
C. 
Project Operational Manual 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out, 
in accordance with the provisions of a manual satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Project Operational Manual), which shall include, inter alia, the following 
provisions: (a) the guidelines for the carrying out of Municipal Subprojects under 
Part A of the Project; (b) the  eligibility criteria for Participating TCCs in 
submitting their respective proposals for Subprojects; (c) the eligibility criteria 
and detailed procedures for the selection, approval  and implementation of 
Subprojects; (d) Project impact and implementation indicators, including the 
procedures for monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and the Subproject 
activities; (e) the Project disbursement and procurement procedures; (f) the 
Environmental Management Framework; (g) the Land Acquisition and 
Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework; (h) the Indigenous Peoples 
Framework; (i) the format of: (A) the unaudited interim financial reports referred 
to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) the Financial 
Statements; and (j) a model Subproject Agreement.  
 
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not, and shall cause BSIF not to, abrogate, amend, suspend, waive 
or otherwise fail to enforce the Project Operational Manual or any provision 
thereof. 
 
3. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Project Operational Manual, the 
Subsidiary Agreement, the Subproject Agreements and this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
D. 
Annual Work Plan 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall cause BSIF to: 
 
(a) 
prepare, in accordance with the guidelines detailed in the Operational 
 
Manual, and, not later than February 28 in each year of Project 
 
implementation, to the Bank a consolidated annual working plan (AWP) 
 
satisfactory to the Bank, including a description of activities proposed for 
 
the upcoming Fiscal Year, a budget, a financial plan, a training program, 
 
and a procurement plan for the procurement of goods, works and services 
 
required to carry out such activities; 
 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank said AWP, within four weeks following the 
 
submission  of said plan; and 
 
-9- 
 
(c) 
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
 
and achievement of said AWP, based on the views of the Bank on said 
 
plan. 
 
E. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
  
The Borrower, through MED, shall ensure, and shall cause BSIF to ensure, that 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.  
 
F. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause BSIF, and the Participating TCCs to 
ensure, that the Project activities are carried out in accordance with the Safeguard 
Instruments, including the guidelines, rules and procedures defined in said 
Safeguard Instruments. To that end, the Borrower shall cause BSIF to ensure 
that, for the Subprojects proposed for inclusion in each Annual Work Plan to be 
prepared under Section I.D of this Schedule 2 under overall coordination and 
with the support of the Department of Environment, the following actions are 
taken in a manner acceptable to the Bank: 
(a)  
if an Environmental Management Plan would be required for a 
Subproject on the basis of the Environmental Management Framework: 
(i) such Environmental Management Plan shall be prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Environmental Management 
Framework, disclosed locally and furnished to the Bank as part of the 
Annual Work Plan; and (ii) the Subproject shall be carried out in 
accordance with such EnvironmentalManagement Plan as approved by 
the Bank;   
 
(b) 
if a Land Acquisition and/or Involuntary Resettlement Plan would be 
required for a Subproject on the basis of the Land Acquisition and 
Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework: (i) said Land Acquisition 
and/ or Involuntary Resettlement Plan shall be prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Land Acquisition and Involuntary 
Resettlement Policy Framework, disclosed locally and furnished to the 
Bank as part of the Annual Work Plan; and (ii) no works under a 
Subproject shall be commenced until (A) all measures required to be 
taken under said Land Acquisition and/or Resettlement Plan prior to the 
initiation of said works have been taken; (B) BSIF has prepared and 
furnished to the Bank a report in form and substancesatisfactory to the 
Bank, on the status of compliance with the requirements of said Land 
Acquisition and/or Involuntary Resettlement Plan; and (C) the Bank has 
confirmed that said works may be commenced; and 
 
-10- 
(c) 
if an Indigenous Peoples Plan  would be required for  a Subproject on the 
basis of the Indigenous Peoples Framework: (i) said Indigenous Peoples 
Plan shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Indigenous Peoples Framework, disclosed locally and furnished to the 
Bank as part  of the Annual Work Plan; and (ii) no worksunder a 
Subproject shall be commenced until (A) all measures required to be 
taken under said Indigenous Peoples Plan to address the needs of the 
Indigenous Peoples in the areas under the Project have been taken; (B) 
BSIF has prepared and furnished to the Bank a report in form and  
substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of compliance with the 
requirements of said Indigenous Peoples Plan; and (C) the Bank has 
confirmed that said work may be commenced. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause BSIF to ensure that all measures required for carrying 
out the recommendations of the Safeguard Instruments are taken in a timely 
manner. 
3. 
Without limitation to its other reporting obligations under this agreement and 
under Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall cause BSIF to 
include in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this Schedule 
adequate information on the implementation of the Safeguard Instruments, giving 
details of: 
 
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments; 
 
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the 
 
smooth implementation  of such Safeguard Instruments; 
 
(c)  
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
 
conditions and to ensure the continued efficient and effective 
 
implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and  
 
(d)  
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
 
Recipient on such reports. Each such report shall be furnished to the 
 
Bank not later than one month after the end of the six months covered by 
 
such report and the first such report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
 
later than one month after the end of the six months in which the works 
 
under the first Subproject commenced. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MED, shall cause BSIF to monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare and furnish to the Bank Project Reports in 
-11- 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project Operational Manual. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of six months and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
2. 
On or about the date twenty four months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, 
through MED, shall undertake in conjunction with the Bank, and BSIF a 
comprehensive mid-term review of the Project during which it shall exchange 
views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project, the 
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement and the 
performance by BSIF of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, having 
regard to the performance indicators referred to in paragraph 1 of this Part A. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project (Completion Report) and related plan required pursuant 
to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause BSIF to, maintain each a financial 
management system, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through MED, shall cause BSIF to prepare, interim unaudited financial reports, 
covering a calendar quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. The 
Borrower, through MED, shall cause BSIF to furnish to the Bank consolidated 
interim reports, not later than forty five days after the end of each quarter.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MED, shall cause BSIF to have its Financial Statements 
(including the Project’s Financial Statements) audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Preparation Advance of the Project. The Borrower, through MED, shall cause 
BSIF to ensure that the audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the end of each such 
period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
 
 
 
-12- 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured, and/or caused to be procured, in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured, and/or caused to 
be procured, in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this 
Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Non-Consultant Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
-13- 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least-Cost Based Selection 
(b) Quality-Based Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
  
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-14- 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) Non-Consultant 
Services, and 
consultants’ services 
under Part A of the 
Project 
 
 
1,322,500 
100%   
 
 
(2) Goods and works under 
Part A of the Project 
 
10,120,000 
97% 
(3) Goods, Non-Consultant 
 
Services, consultants’ 
services, and Training 
under Part B of the 
Project 
           
1,050,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, Non-Consultant 
 
Services, consultants’ 
services, Operating 
Costs, and Training 
under Part C of the 
Project 
 
1,670,000 
100% 
(5) Refund of the  
      Preparation Advance 
 
800,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
37,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(7) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
15,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 1,500,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made within one year prior to this date but on or after 
August 1, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures. 
-15- 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2015 or any later date as the Bank may agree, 
and notify to the Borrower in writing. 
 
Section V. 
Access to Information 
 
The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any information related to the 
Legal Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to information, in 
effect at the time of such disclosure. 
 
Section VI. 
Other Covenants 
 
 
Not later than one month after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause BSIF 
to recruit the following key staff to the PIU: (a) a project coordinator; (b) a 
project engineer; (c) a social officer; and (d) a procurement officer, all in 
accordance with Section III.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-16- 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning October 15, 2015 
through April 15, 2035 
2.5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
-17- 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each amount. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-18- 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement 
 
The Subsidiary Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions: 
 
A. 
The obligations of the Borrower: 
 
1. 
through MoF, to promptly disburse to BSIF the proceeds of the Loan to finance 
the carrying out the Project with due diligence and efficiency; 
 
2. 
to support the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project as follows: (i) 
assist BSIF in the carrying out the activities under Part A of the Project; (ii) assist 
BSIF to carry out the activities under Part B.1 of the Project; (iii) through 
MLLGRD and MNRE, participate in the carrying out of the activities under Part 
B.2 of the Project, all under the overall guidance and oversight of the PSC; and 
(iv) take all necessary measures to obtain, throughout Project implementation, the 
cooperation of other agencies of the Borrower, including inter alia, the 
Borrower’s ministries of works (Ministry of Works) and housing and urban 
development (Ministry of Housing and Urban Development); 
 
3. 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable BSIF to comply with its 
obligations referred to in Section C of this Schedule; 
 
4. 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines;  
 
5. 
with respect to the assistance to be provided to TCCs to develop their municipal 
growth plans under Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause BSIF to 
ensure that the terms of reference for said Project activities include a provision, 
satisfactory to the Bank, mandating that the TCCs incorporate and/or cause to be 
incorporated the applicable Bank Safeguard Policies to said plans;  
 
6. 
to provide adequate funding as shall be required for the implementation of any 
Resettlement Action Plan; and 
 
7. 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof unless as may otherwise be 
agreed by the Bank. 
 
B. 
The right of the Borrower to take remedial actions against BSIF in case BSIF 
shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement (which actions shall previously be agreed with the Bank);  
 
 
-19- 
C. 
The obligations of BSIF: 
 
1. 
to carry out (a) Part A of the Project, with the participation of Participating 
TCCs; (b) Part B.1 of the Project with the participation of TCCs; (c) Part B.2 
with the participation of MLLGRD and MNRE; and (c) Part C of the Project, all 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, 
and the Project Operational Manual; 
 
2. 
to carry out the fiduciary (i.e., financial management and procurement) and 
monitoring and evaluation aspects of the Project, including the obligation to: (i) 
ensure that all goods, works and services to be financed out of the Loan are 
procured in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (ii) ensure that 
adequate policies and procedures are maintained to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of 
the Project and the achievement of its objective; (iii) (A) maintain a financial 
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a 
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project; and (B) at the Bank’s request, have such financial statements audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the 
statements so audited to the Bank; and (iv) maintain the PIU throughout Project 
implementation, as provided in Section I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
3. 
with respect to the implementation of Part A of the Project, to:  
 
(a) 
prepare Subproject proposals, based on the list of priority Subprojects 
 
prepared by the corresponding Participating TCC;  
 
(b)  
evaluate and approve Subprojects, in accordance with the criteria and 
 
procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual;  
 
(c)  
enter into Subproject Agreements with each Participating TCC, under 
 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include those 
 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual, inter alia: (i) the obligation 
 
of the relevant Participating TCC to: (A) comply with the provision of 
 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines in connection with the activities of the 
 
Project under its responsibility; (B) assist BSIF in the implementation 
 
and supervision of Subprojects; (C) once the pertinent Subproject has 
 
been carried out in a manner acceptable to the Bank, operate and 
 
maintain the investments supported under said Subproject, with due 
 
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
 
administrative, technical, financial, economic, environmental and social 
 
standards and practices, and the applicable provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(D) not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
-20- 
 
enforce the pertinent Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof, 
 
unless previously agreed by the Bank; and (E) to take or permit to be 
 
taken all actions to enable the Borrower and BSIF to comply with their 
 
respective obligations referred to in this Agreement and/or in the 
 
Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be; and (ii) BSIF’s right to take 
 
remedial actions against the Participating TCC in case it shall have failed 
 
to comply with any of its obligations under the Subproject Agreement 
 
(which actions shall previously be agreed with the Bank); 
 
(d)  
upon approval of any given Subproject, according to the criteria and 
 
procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual, carry out said 
 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
 
appropriate administrative, technical, financial, economic, environmental 
 
and social standards and practices, and in accordance with the applicable 
 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Safeguard Instruments; and 
 
(e) 
upon approval of a Subproject, and prior to the carrying out of said 
 
Subproject: (a) carry out an environmental assessment of said 
 
Subproject, and prepare an environmental management plan (or similar 
 
environmental instrument), avoid and minimize environmental issues and 
 
land acquisition and involuntary resettlement, all acceptable to the Bank; 
 
and (b) thereafter, to carry out or cause to be carried out said plan in 
 
accordance with its terms. 
 
4. 
to comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines in connection 
with the activities of the Project under its responsibility; 
 
5. 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the  
pertinent Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof, unless previously 
agreed by the Bank; and  
 
6. 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower to comply with 
their respective obligations referred to in this Agreement and/or in the Subsidiary 
Agreement, as the case may be. 
 
 
-21- 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.   
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Bank Safeguard Policies” means  the Bank’s operational policies and 
procedures set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under 
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual. 
4. 
 “BSIF” means Belize Social Investment Fund established and operating pursuant 
to the Social Investment Fund Act, Chapter 43 of the laws of the Borrower, 
Revised Edition 2000 - 2003. 
5. 
“BSIF Legislation” means Social Investment Fund Act, Chapter 43 of the laws of 
the Borrower, Revised Edition 2000 - 2003. 
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
8. 
“Department of Environment” means the department within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, with the responsibility for 
ensuring that the environmental and social safeguard concerns are considered 
during the Project implementation. 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the Borrower’s 
framework, acceptable to the Bank, dated June 2010 and published on June 9, 
2010, 
setting 
forth 
the 
modalities 
for 
environmental 
screening 
and 
procedures/actions for the preparation and implementation of environmental 
-22- 
assessments and management plans under the Project, and such term includes all 
schedules and annexes to the Environmental Management Framework. 
 
10. 
“Environmental Management Plan”or “EMP” means an environmental 
management plan, prepared in accordance with the Environmental Management 
Framework and the provisions of Section I.F.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for 
the purposes of a Subproject and acceptable to the Bank, and giving details of the 
magnitude of the environmental impacts, as well as the specific actions, measures 
and policies designed to facilitate the achievement of the objective of the 
Environmental Management Framework under the Subproject, including the 
budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, along with the institutional and 
procedural measures needed to implement such actions, measures and policies. 
 
11. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on April 1 of 
each year and ending on March 31 of the following year. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
13. 
“Indigenous Peoples” means, a social group of people with a distinct social and 
cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the 
development process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following 
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural 
resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as 
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different 
from the national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political 
institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented production.  
 
14. 
“Indigenous Peoples Framework” or “IPF” means the Borrower’s framework 
dated February 19, 2010, and published on June 5, 2010, acceptable to the Bank, 
setting forth procedures for preparation an indigenous peoples plan, measures for 
addressing the needs of the Indigenous Peoples, and providing guidelines and 
procedures for consultation with and informed participation of Indigenous 
Peoples residing or cultivating lands in areas under the Project, and referred to in 
Section I.F.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
15. 
“Involuntary Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land 
under the Project, which taking causes Affected Persons to have their: (i) 
standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, 
land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or 
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access 
to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) 
-23- 
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently. 
 
16. 
“Land Acquisition and/or Involuntary Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” 
means in respect of any Subproject involving resettlement, a resettlement plan for 
such Subproject prepared and implemented in accordance with the RPF and the  
provisions of Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and approved by the 
Association, such resettlement plan to include a program of actions, measures and 
policies for compensation and resettlement of the Affected Persons, and setting 
forth the magnitude of displacement, proposed compensation and resettlement 
arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with 
adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements designed to ensure 
proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with such plan. 
 
17. 
“Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” 
means the Borrower’s framework dated February 15, 2010, and published on 
June 5, 2010, acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the modalities for resettlement 
and compensation of Affected Persons under the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
 
18. 
“MED” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Development, Commerce 
and Industry, and Consumer Protection, or any successor thereto. 
 
19. 
“MLLGRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Local Government and 
Rural Development, or any successor thereto. 
 
20. 
“MNRE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources and the 
Environment, or any successor thereto. 
 
21. 
“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto. 
 
22. 
“Non-consultant Services” means (for the purpose of the table set forth in Section 
IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement), services which will be bid and 
contracted on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs, such as 
the logistical service expenses for capacity building events, printing of training 
materials and media campaigns. 
 
23. 
“Operating Costs” means (for the purpose of the table set forth in Section IV.A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement), the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, based on AWPs approved by the Bank pursuant to 
Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including office equipment and 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, 
office administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs of 
locally contracted employees, excluding the salaries of the Borrower’s civil 
service. 
-24- 
 
24. 
“Participating TCC” means any of the Borrower’s town and city councils that is 
legally autonomous entity, and which meets the selection criteria set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual to participate in the Project. 
 
25. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementing Unit within BSIF referred to in Section 
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
26. 
“Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on July 9, 2009, and on behalf of the 
Borrower on July 16, 2009. 
  
27. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
28. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 26, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
29. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and 
referred to in Section 5.01(a) of this Agreement, and in Section I.B of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
30. 
“Project Steering Committee” or “PSC” means the committee referred to in 
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with the structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual. 
 
31. 
“Safeguard Instruments” means the EMF, the RPF, the IPF, related EMPs, 
Resettlement Action Plans, and Indigenous Peoples Plans for the Project. 
 
32. 
“Subproject” means a development infrastructure investment activity/project 
proposed by a TCC, consisting of, inter alia, investments related to drainage and 
traffic management (roads, road architecture, and signage), as well as public 
spaces, parks, tourism enhancements, bridges (smaller, municipal-responsibility), 
markets, and street lighting, related to drainage, markets, traffic management, 
management of public spaces, installation of street lighting, and development of 
associated infrastructure, selected in accordance with terms and conditions 
specified in the Operational Manual. 
 
-25- 
33. 
“Subproject Agreement” means the agreement to be executed between the BSIF 
and a Participating TCC pursuant to which such TCC shall participate in the 
implementation of a Subproject. 
 
34. 
 “Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to BSIF. 
 
35. 
“TCC” means any of the Borrower’s town and city councils that is a legally 
autonomous entity, including a Participating TCC.  
 
36. 
“Training” means (for the purpose of the table set forth in Section IV.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement), the cost associated with the training and 
workshops, based on AWPs approved by the Bank pursuant to Section I.D of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for reasonable expenditures (other than 
expenditures for consultants’ services and Non Consultant Services), including: 
(a) travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and 
trainees in connection with their training and by non-consultant training 
facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d) training material 
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses. 
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
-26- 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier 
that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows:  
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III.   
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) 
and all other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, 
in the event that the Borrower or the individual or entity has been 
-27- 
debarred by another financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the 
use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or 
an individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such 
Borrower, individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; 
(ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for 
example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the 
preparation or implementation of the project or any other project 
financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged 
in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with 
which the Bank has entered into an agreement for the mutual 
enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person or entity 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any 
project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices 
in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
Footnotes: 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
-28- 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.”  
