CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7996-MX  
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Efficient Lighting and Appliances Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 8, 2010
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 8, 2010, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”), hereby represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).   
 
(A) WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), has 
requested the Bank to assist in financing the Project; 
 
(B) WHEREAS by agreement of even date herewith (the CTF Loan Agreement), 
the Bank, acting as an implementing agency of the Clean Technology Fund (CTF), has 
agreed to extend to NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C (NAFIN) a loan in the amount of 
fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000) (the CTF Loan) to assist NAFIN in financing Part 
2(a)(ii) of the Project, and by agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and 
the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Borrower has agreed to guarantee the CTF 
Loan payment obligations of NAFIN.; 
 
(C) WHEREAS the Borrower has also requested the Bank, acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF), to provide additional 
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project, and  by an agreement of even 
date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as implementing agency of the 
GEF (the GEF Grant Agreement), the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a grant 
in the amount of seven million one hundred eighteen thousand six hundred Dollars 
($7,118,600) (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to assist in the financing of Parts 2(b) and 3 of 
the Project; and 
 
(D) WHEREAS the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the 
Loan (as set forth in the table in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of 
supporting the Project), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the 
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement; 
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Appendix to this Agreement, the Appendix to the CTF Loan Agreement or the 
appendix to the GEF Grant Agreement (as the case may be). 
 
-2- 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty million six 
hundred twenty five thousand Dollars ($250,625,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing 
the Project. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower’s 
representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs 
the Bank, the Borrower’s representative for purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director of
International Financial Institutions of NAFIN (Director de Organismos 
Financieros Internacionales de NAFIN) or any person or persons whom such 
representative shall designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, at any time, request any of 
the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable 
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
-3- 
 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower, through SENER, shall: (a) carry out Part 1 of the Project, in 
coordination with the Administrator; Part 2(a)(i) of the Project, in coordination 
with CFE, the Operator, and the Eligible Retailers, and Part 3 of the Project; (b) 
cause NAFIN to carry out Part 2(a)(ii) of the Project with the assistance of the 
Operator; and (c) carry out Part 2(b) of the Project with the assistance of NAFIN, 
acting as trustee of the Guarantee Facility, in accordance with the provisions of 
the SENER-NAFIN Financing Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through SENER, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of, namely that the Administrator 
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CFL Implementation 
Agreement, and that in the opinion of both the Borrower, through SENER, and 
the Bank, such failure materially or adversely affects the objectives of the 
Project.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely, that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occur and continues for a period of 
sixty days after notice of the pertinent event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
-4- 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto;  
 
(b) 
the CFL Implementation Agreement, the SENER-CFE Implementation 
Agreement and the CFE-Operator Implementation Agreement, have all 
been executed by the parties thereto; and 
 
(c) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and SENER (in a separate legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank, issued by Borrower counsel acceptable to the 
Bank), and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, 
issued by NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, and NAFIN and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower, and NAFIN in accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato’s terms.  
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 23, 2012.  
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP. The 
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD 
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be: 
(a) the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP or any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or 
(b)  Director of International Financial Institutions of NAFIN (Director de 
Organismos Internacionales de NAFIN). 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General 
Conditions: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsimile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
 6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
-5- 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cancun, United Mexican States, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Ernesto Cordero 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Robert B. Zoellick 
 
Authorized Representative 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to promote the Borrower’s efficient use of 
energy and to mitigate climate change by increasing the use of energy efficient 
technologies at the residential level. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part 1: Replacement of Incandescent Bulbs (IB) with Compact Fluorescent Lamps 
(CFL) in the Low to Medium Income Residential Sector
Provision of financing to carry out the CFL Replacement Program, through the 
purchase and distribution of about 45 million CFLs and the collection and proper 
disposal of replaced IBs. 
 
Part 2: Incentives to Encourage the Replacement of Old and Inefficient Appliances in 
the Borrower’s Residential Sector
(a) 
Provision of financing to carry out the Appliances Replacement Program, 
through the provision of: (i) Vouchers to Eligible Beneficiaries; and (ii) 
Credits to Eligible Beneficiaries, for the financing of the cost of 
replacing old and inefficient appliances under the Appliances 
Replacement Program. 
 
(b) 
Capitalization of the Guarantee Facility to issue credit guarantees to 
NAFIN, in support of its lending under the Appliances Replacement 
Program.  
 
Part 3: Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Strengthening the sustainability of the CFL Replacement Program, 
through: (i) the carrying out of studies and activities aimed at developing 
CFLs recycling centers and proper disposal schemes; and (ii) the 
development of a policy framework to gradually phase out the use of IBs 
in the Borrower’s territory and ensure a sustainable transformation of the 
market. 
 
(b) 
Development of energy efficiency standards and programs, through: (i) 
the carrying out of studies and consultations to enhance harmonization of 
energy efficiency standards among all Central America countries, the 
United States of America and Canada; (ii) the carrying out of an 
evaluation of the feasibility of raising energy efficiency standards for 
appliances in the Borrower’s territory, as well as the development of a 
policy framework to support the ban of imports of inefficient appliances 
to ensure a sustainable transformation of the market; (iii) the design of 
-7- 
 
energy efficiency projects and programs in eligible private sector 
companies, 
the 
Borrower’s 
municipalities 
and 
federal 
public 
administration facilities, and the design of commercial and industrial  
lighting and other energy efficiency projects; and (iv) the provision of 
training to local banks to raise the awareness on energy efficiency 
technologies and projects and provide to local banks’ selected personnel 
the expertise required to appraise and manage loans for energy efficiency 
projects in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
(c) 
Promotion of the CFL Replacement Program and the Appliances 
Replacement Program through: (i) Provision of technical assistance for 
the carrying out of a dissemination and information campaign; and (ii) 
carrying out of a dissemination campaign through mass-media 
broadcasting networks. 
 
(d) 
Provision of support for the mid-term review of the Project, and 
monitoring and evaluation activities for the Project.  
 
(e) 
Provision of training for implementing agencies, scrapping centers, and 
other entities identified by SENER, in the areas consistent with the 
objectives of the Project. 
 
(f) 
Provision of support for the functioning of the Energy Efficiency 
Administrative Unit. 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall  maintain, until completion of the Project, 
the unit within SENER (the Energy Efficiency Administrative Unit), with staff 
(including a procurement specialist and a financial management specialist), 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, responsible for the management, 
coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including, 
without limitation, the carrying out of procurement and financial management 
activities under the Project, together with the responsibility for the preparation of 
the financial statements, financial reports, Project Reports, and maintenance of 
the records and accounts referred to in Section II of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall:  
 
(a) 
transfer the necessary resources to FTE, for the Administrator to carry 
out Part 1 of the Project under a subsidiary agreement (the CFL 
Implementation Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, 
through SENER, FTE and the Administrator, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, for the purposes of carrying out Part 1 of the 
Project and setting forth their respective roles and responsibilities 
regarding the implementation of the said part of the Project, as 
established in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the CFL 
Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
SENER, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
CFL Implementation Agreement, or any of its provisions. In case of any 
conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the CFL 
Implementation Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of implementing Part 2(a)(i) of the Project, the Borrower, 
through SENER (through FTE) shall: 
 
(a) 
transfer the necessary resources to CFE under a subsidiary agreement 
(the SENER-CFE Implementation Agreement), to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through SENER, and CFE, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank, setting forth their respective roles and 
responsibilities regarding the implementation of Part 2(a)(i) of the 
Project; 
-9- 
 
(b) 
cause CFE to make available to the Operator, through an agreement (the 
CFE-Operator Implementation Agreement), the necessary resources to 
allow the Operator to pay Eligible Retailers with the amounts equivalent 
to the Vouchers under the Appliances Replacement Program; 
 
(c) 
cause the Operator, under the terms of the CFE-Operator Implementation 
Agreement, to make available to each Eligible Retailer, through an 
agreement (the Operator-Eligible Retailers Agreement), the required 
amounts from the Loan to cover payments due to each of the Eligible 
Retailers, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the SENER-CFE 
Implementation Agreement, and cause CFE and the Operator to carry out 
their obligations under the CFE-Operator Implementation Agreement, in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SENER shall, and shall cause 
CFE to, not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
SENER-CFE Implementation Agreements or the CFE-Operator 
Implementation Agreement, as the case may be, or any of their 
provisions. In case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement 
and the terms of either the SENER-CFE or the CFE-Operator 
Implementation Agreements, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
B. 
Contrato de Mandato 
1. 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato), 
satisfactory to the Bank, among NAFIN and SENER, whereby, inter alia:
(a) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees 
to maintain and operate the designated account (referred to in the 
additional instructions cited in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule 2) in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower, through SENER, agrees to carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines, and the Operational Manual;   
 
(d) 
the Borrower shall have the right to, in case of fraud or corruption (as 
defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines), provide for the early 
termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its 
-10- 
 
effects, or, if applicable, require the restitution of funds transferred to 
NAFIN under said Contrato de Mandato; and  
 
(e) 
the Borrower, through SENER, agrees to cooperate fully with NAFIN to 
ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations 
referred to in Section I.B.1(a) and (b) herein.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  The Borrower shall not amend, waive or 
fail to enforce the Contrato de Mandato or any provision thereof, except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree.  In case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Safeguards and Operational Manual 
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
SENER shall, carry out and/or cause to be carried out the Project in accordance 
with: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual, which shall contain specific provisions on 
detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including: (i) 
the procurement, disbursement and financial management requirements 
for the Project; (ii)  the Key Performance Indicators; (iii) the operational 
rules of both the CFL Replacement Program and the Appliances 
Replacement Program, including: (A) the eligibility criteria to select 
Eligible Retailers; and (B) the monitoring that the prices registered by 
Eligible Retailers with the Operator, on eligible appliances under the 
Project, are offered to the Eligible Beneficiaries; (iv) the  Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; and (v) the procedures for processing and paying 
Vouchers under Part 2(a)(i) of the Project. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SENER, shall not, and/or shall 
cause not to, amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of 
any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.   
 
(b) 
the IPPF; and 
 
(c) 
the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
1.  
The Borrower, through SENER, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. In this regard, 
the Borrower, through SENER or through any other entity as the Borrower, 
-11- 
 
through SENER, may deem appropriate, shall, inter alia, ensure compliance with 
paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines as follows: 
 
(a) 
by requiring the Operator, the Administrator, CFE, and NAFIN (through 
their respective Implementation Agreements), and Eligible Retailers 
(through the letter referred to in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement), to take appropriate measures to prevent, inform on, respond 
to and investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and obstructive 
practices with respect to the handling of Project funds under those Parts 
of the Project for which they are responsible; 
 
(b) 
by allowing the Bank, whenever a fraud and/or corruption practice has 
occurred, to inspect accounts, records and other documents of any/or all 
the Operator, the Administrator, CFE, NAFIN and Eligible Retailers 
relating to the Project upon the Bank’s request and in the company of 
SENER, representatives, or through representatives of any other entity as 
the Borrower, through SENER, may deem appropriate; 
 
(c) 
by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and 
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank’s 
terms of reference for such purpose, with the collaboration of the 
Borrower, through SENER;  
 
(d) 
by agreeing to obtain restitution from any/or all of the Administrator, the 
Operator, CFE, and NAFIN, as the case may be, of any amount of the 
Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred, all the 
above pursuant to audit, transparency, control, restitution and 
information sharing clauses within the Implementation Agreements and 
the Operational Manual; and 
 
(e) 
by acknowledging, that whenever a fraud and/or corruption practice by 
an Eligible Retailer has occurred, the Borrower’s procedures for 
obtaining restitution of misused funds established under Mexican laws 
and regulations, will be followed. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall cause the Operator, by not later than 10 
business days after the date of this Agreement, issue a notice to the Eligible 
Retailers, on terms acceptable to the Bank, informing them of the existence of 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (and accompanying a copy thereof), and 
notifying them that if any of said Eligible Retailers (or any employee involved in 
the management of funds for the Appliances Replacement Program) incur in any 
of the sanctionable offenses described under the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the 
Bank may sanction said Eligible Retailer in accordance with the Bank’s 
sanctions regime. 
 
-12- 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators 
included in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty 
(60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through SENER, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall have the Financial Statements for the 
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Non-Consultant’s Services.  All goods and Non-Consultant’s 
Services required for the Project and to be financed with an amount equivalent to 
the amount in Dollars provided under the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under 
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
-13- 
 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions. The Borrower, through SENER, shall: (a) supply the SEPA 
with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 45 days 
after the date of this Agreement; and (b) update the Procurement Plan at least 
once a year, or as needed through the duration of the Project, to reflect the actual 
Project implementation needs and progress and supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant’s 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and Non-Consultant’s Services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant’s Services.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-
Consultant’s Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding  
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least-Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualification 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the selection of Individual Consultants 
-14- 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions). 
 
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on 
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to 
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan 
shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A.1 
immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided 
under the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures. 
 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the 
Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) CFLs under Part 1 of the 
Project  
 
55,000,000 
100% 
(2) Vouchers under Part 
2(a)(i) of the Project 
 
194,998,437 
100% of payments made by 
the Operator to Eligible 
Retailers for the payment of 
redeemed Vouchers. 
(3) Front-end Fee  
 
626,563 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest rate 
-0- 
Amounts due under section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement. 
-15- 
 
Collars. 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
250,625,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except those 
withdrawals under Category (2), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed fifty 
million Dollars ($50,000,000) equivalent may be made for payments made prior 
to this date but after January 1, 2010 but in no case made more than twelve (12) 
months prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
-16- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on June 15, 
2022. 
 
-17- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.   
Definitions
1. 
“Administrator” means FIDE (Fideicomiso para el Ahorro de Energía Eléctrica),
or any other entity with similar mandate, proposed by the Borrower, through 
SENER, and acceptable to the World Bank, as set forth in the Operational 
Manual, for the purposes of Part 1 of the Project. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Appliances Replacement Program” means Programa de Sustitución de 
Electrodomésticos para el Ahorro de Energía, a program established  by the 
Borrower, through SENER on February 2009, which provides incentives to 
electricity consumers to exchange old inefficient appliances (refrigerators and air 
conditioners) with more efficient ones, as further described in the Operational 
Manual, and referred to in Part 2 of the Project. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CFE” means Comisión Federal de Electricidad, the Borrower’s national 
electricity utility. 
6. 
“CFE-Operator Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in paragraph 3(b) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
7. 
“CFL” means compact fluorescent lamp. 
8. 
“CFL Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 
2(a) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
9. 
“CFL Replacement Program” means the Borrower’s program to replace 
approximately 45 million IBs with CFLs in low to medium income households, 
as part of the Borrower’s national program on energy efficiency referred to in 
Part 1 of the Project. 
10. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
11. 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the agreement to be entered into among the 
Borrower, through SHCP, SENER and NAFIN, pursuant to paragraph 1 of 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
-18- 
 
12. 
“Credit” means a loan made or proposed to be made by NAFIN, through the 
Operator, out of the proceeds of the CTF Loan, to an Eligible Beneficiary, for 
purposes of partially financing the replacement of an old and inefficient 
appliance for a more efficient one, under the Appliances Replacement Program.  
 
13. 
“Default Event” means the event of default which will trigger the prematuring of 
any given Credit made by NAFIN, through the Operator, to an Eligible 
Beneficiary and affected by such an event of default, under terms, mechanisms, 
conditions and exceptions set forth in the Guarantee Facility Operating Rules. 
14. 
“Eligible Beneficiaries” means: (a) for Part 1 of the Project: low to medium 
income households within the Borrower’s territory; and (b) for Part 2(a) of the 
Project: electricity consumers from low income and other qualified households 
(calculated by their level of electricity consumption) currently owning and using 
appliances at least 10 years old, and eligible for financial assistance under the 
Appliances Replacement Program, all in accordance with the specifications of 
the Operational Manual. 
15. 
“Eligible Retailer” means any retail store within the Borrower’s territory that 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate 
under the Appliances Replacement Program. 
16. 
“Energy Efficiency Administrative Unit” means the unit within SENER referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan prepared by the Borrower, 
through SENER, and approved by the Bank on June 18, 2010, and made 
available to the public on July 7, 2010 in the website http://www.energia.gob.mx, 
which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, 
including: (i) an environmental screening checklist for Project interventions; and 
(ii) environmental supervision, monitoring and evaluation procedures for the 
Project. 
 
18. 
“FTE” means Fondo para la Transición Energética y el Aprovechamiento 
Sustentable de la Energía, the Borrower’s fund for energy transition and the 
sustainable use of energy, established pursuant the Borrower’s renewable energy 
law (Ley para el Aprovechamiento de Energías Renovables y el Financiamiento 
de la Transición Energética), of November 2008. 
 
19. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010.  
 
20. 
“Guarantee Facility” means the subaccount No. 1064047 (Fondo Senior) created 
under the Fideicomiso 1148-0 (Fondo para la Participación en el Riesgo), a trust 
fund established under the Fideicomiso 8013-9 administered by NAFIN and 
created pursuant to the agreement dated December 20, 2001 and registered in the 
Borrower’s trust registry within SHCP under No. 368-V-537, for the purposes of 
-19- 
 
providing repayment default risk guarantees to NAFIN in respect to and upon 
verification that a Default Event has materialized, all in support of NAFIN’s 
lending (through the Operator) of Credits to Eligible Beneficiaries under the 
Project, utilizing the proceeds of the Grant allocated to Part 2(b) of the Project 
and other sources of financing, including the counterpart funds to be provided by 
the Recipient, through SENER. 
 
21. 
“Hedging Guidelines” means the Bank’s Guidelines for Using Hedging Products 
dated March 23, 2009 or any later guidelines issued by the Bank to replace said 
guidelines. 
 
22. 
“IB” means incandescent bulbs. 
 
23. 
“Implementation Agreements” means collectively the CFL Implementation 
Agreement, the SENER-CFE Implementation Agreement, the CFE-Operator 
Implementation Agreement, the NAFIN-Operator Financing Agreement and the 
SENER-NAFIN Financing Agreement. 
 
24. 
“IPPF” means the Borrower’s Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework prepared 
by the Borrower, and approved by the Bank on June 28, 2010, and made 
available 
to 
the 
public 
on 
June 
29, 
2010, 
in 
the 
website 
http://www.energia.gob.mx, which sets out the measures to be taken (including 
the preparation and implementation of indigenous peoples plans) to ensure that 
indigenous peoples will not be harmed by the Project and to ensure their 
participation and involvement in the implementation and monitoring of the 
Project as it affects them. 
 
25. 
“NAFIN” means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Mexican development bank 
serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 
 
26. 
“NAFIN-Operator Financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to the CTF Agreement. 
 
27. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated October 25, 2010, 
acceptable to the Bank, referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the 
Bank’s prior approval. 
 
28. 
“Operator” means FIDE (Fideicomiso para el Ahorro de Energía Eléctrica), or 
any other entity with similar mandate, proposed by the Borrower, through 
SENER, and acceptable to the World Bank, as set forth in the Operational 
Manual, for the purposes of Part 2(a) of the Project. 
 
29. 
“Operator-Eligible Retailers Agreement” means any of the agreements referred 
to in paragraph 3 (c) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
30. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, revised in October 
2006 and May 2010. 
-20- 
 
31. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
prepared by SENER, dated October 8, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of 
the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraphs. 
 
32. 
 “SENER” means Secretaría de Energía, the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy. 
 
33. 
“SENER-CFE Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 3(a) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
34. 
“SENER-NAFIN Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient, through SENER, and NAFIN, acting as a trustee of the 
Guarantee Facility, and referred to in Section I.B.1(a) of Schedule 2 to the GEF 
Grant Agreement. 
35. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
36. 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.  
 
37. 
“Voucher” means the non-refundable financial support (Apoyo Directo) provided 
by the Borrower, through SENER, in favor of an Eligible Beneficiary, for use by 
said Eligible Beneficiary as partial payment to an Eligible Retailer in connection 
with the purchase of a new appliance (covering a portion of the cost of said 
appliance, and in those cases specified in the Operational Manual, the cost of 
delivery and disposing of the old appliance), all under the Appliances 
Replacement Program and in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
-21- 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the 
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
