CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7872-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Mato Grosso do Sul State Road Transport Project - 
 Programa de Transportes e de Desenvolvimento Sustentável do Estado de Mato 
Grosso do Sul (PDE/MS))
between 
 
STATE OF MATO GROSSO DO SUL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 16, 2010  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 16, 2010, between STATE OF MATO GROSSO 
DO SUL (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $300,000,000 (three hundred million 
dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Borrower’s Public Works and Transportation Secretary.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
- 2 -
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions: 
 
- 3 -
(a) 
carry out Part 2.A of the Project through SEMAC, Part 2.C of the Project 
through SEOP and cause Part 2.B of the Project to be carried out by 
IMASUL, all under the coordination of AGESUL; and 
 
(b) 
cause Parts 1 and 2.D of the Project to be carried out by AGESUL. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  
 
(a) AGESUL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement to an extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, would 
materially and adversely affect the achievement of the Project objective; 
 
(b) AGESUL and /or IMASUL shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under the Technical Cooperation Agreement to an extent that, in 
the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the 
achievement of the Project objective, and the Borrower has not assumed such 
obligations. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that an 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and 
AGESUL. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
- 4 -
(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and AGESUL and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
AGESUL in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
which expire on November 4, 2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
State of Mato Grosso do Sul 
Gabinete do Governador 
Avenida do Poeta, Parque dos Poderes - Bloco VIII   
79031-902 - Campo Grande - MS  
 
Facsimile: (55-67) 3318-1000 
 
With copies to: 
 
Agência Estadual de Gestão de Empreendimentos (AGESUL) 
Avenida Desembargador José Nunes da Cunha 
Parque dos Poderes - Bloco XIV  
79031-310 - Campo Grande - MS  
 
Facsimile: (55-67) 3318-5386 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
- 5 -
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
STATE OF MATO GROSSO DO SUL 
 
By /s/ André Puccinelli  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s road 
network in the Project area. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1: State Roads Rehabilitation and Surfacing
Carrying out of rehabilitation works for about 750 km of the Borrower’s paved 
roads and the surfacing of about 450 km of the Borrower’s existing unpaved roads and 
the introduction of results based contracts for rehabilitation and/or maintenance under a 
pilot (CREMA), to be located in the same areas, which include, inter alia:
(a) 
for rehabilitation: (i) pavement rehabilitation works on sections which have 
already reached or exceeded their lifetime, through appropriate techniques ranging from 
local repairs, eventual reshaping and overlay with surface treatment or asphalt concrete, 
to complete reconstruction; (ii) resurfacing of sections which would otherwise soon reach 
a level of deterioration requiring extensive rehabilitation, through appropriate slurry seal, 
surface treatment or asphalt concrete overlay techniques, depending upon traffic levels 
and material availability; (iii) bridges rehabilitation; (iv) rehabilitation and/or surfacing of 
shoulders to protect the shoulders’ surface from erosion and improve the driving 
conditions; and (v) upgrading of drainage systems, signalization, and dangerous 
crossroads and accesses; 
 
(b) 
for surfacing: (i) localized earthworks and curve realignments, strengthening of 
base course and surfacing, using surface treatment or asphalt mix, depending on traffic; 
(ii) bridges replacement, strengthening and/or widening as necessary; (iii) upgrading or 
implantation of drainage and signalization systems; and (iv) road safety improvements, 
including critical spots elimination or roads intersections improvements; and  
 
(c) 
carrying out of pilot output-performance rehabilitation and maintenance contracts 
(CREMA) for rehabilitation works as detailed in (a) above, as well as for routine and 
periodic maintenance, including: (i) pavement maintenance and repairs such as crack 
sealing, pothole patching, edge break repairing; (ii) drainage cleaning; (iii) vegetation 
clearing; and (iv) signalization maintenance.  
 
- 7 -
Part 2: Institutional Strengthening
A.  
Strengthening of SEMAC’s institutional capacity to support improved efficient 
management of public resources, through the provision of technical assistance, training 
and goods for, inter alia: (i) the structuring and operation of a monitoring and evaluation 
system of the Borrower’s investments programs; (ii) the introduction of results based 
practices in the Borrower’s administration; and (iii) development of the Borrower’s 
capacity to leverage private participation in the financing and operation of infrastructure 
and services. 
B. 
Strengthening 
of 
IMASUL’s 
institutional 
capacity 
for 
environmental 
management, through the provision of technical assistance, training and goods for 
improving and consolidating the Borrower’s capacity to evaluate, monitor and mitigate 
environmental impacts of activities and investments, primarily in the road sector. 
C. 
Strengthening of SEOP’s institutional and planning capacity to support the 
Borrower’s transport sector, through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
goods for, inter alia: (i) the definition of methodologies and systems to systematically 
and objectively evaluate and mitigate socio-economic impacts of transport infrastructure; 
(ii) the carrying out of an evaluation of the potential for public-private partnership in the 
transport sector; (iii) the modernization of SEOP’s information management systems; and 
(iv) the carrying out of a reform of the existing road management structure.  
D. 
Strengthening of AGESUL’s institutional capacity to support the Borrower’s 
road sector, through the provision of technical assistance, training and goods to, inter 
alia: (i) strengthen AGESUL’s planning and monitoring capacity to undertake, notably, 
routine and organized data collection (traffic, road condition), and structure a pavement 
and bridge management system integrated with the Agency’s other management systems; 
(ii) increase AGESUL’s capacity in the areas of procurement, contract management, 
engineering designs review and works supervision; (iii) implement a modernized 
information management system; (iv) improve efficiency in the use of public resources 
through the introduction of results-based contracting and practices in the sector, 
including, but not limited to the structuring of a results-based long-term road 
rehabilitation and maintenance pilot contract (CREMA); (v) improve the supervision of 
social and environmental aspects of road works and operations; and (vi) improve road 
safety. 
 
- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution and until completion of the 
Project, cause AGESUL to maintain a unit to be responsible for: (i) the 
coordination and monitoring of Parts 2.A, 2.B and 2.C of the Project; (ii) the 
implementation and coordination of Parts 1 and 2.D of the Project (the 
“AGESUL CE”); and (iii) the carrying out of all procurement, fiduciary, 
administrative and reporting responsibilities for all activities under the Project. 
The AGESUL CE shall have a structure, functions and staff acceptable to the 
Bank, as defined in the Operation Manual, and shall be headed at all times by a 
coordinator with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement and Technical Cooperation Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 1 and the overall implementation and 
coordination of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement 
with AGESUL, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (the 
“Subsidiary Agreement”), which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of the 
Borrower to make the proceeds of the Loan available to AGESUL and 
AGESUL’s obligation to: (i) carry out its responsibilities under the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, procurement, auditing, environmental and social standards and 
practices; and (ii) carry out the Project in accordance with the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
3. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through 
SEMAC and SEOP, shall enter into an agreement with IMASUL and AGESUL, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (the “Technical Cooperation 
Agreement”), which shall include, inter alia, IMASUL’s and AGESUL’S 
obligation to carry out their respective responsibilities under Parts 2.B and 2.D of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, procurement, auditing, environmental and social 
standards and practices and in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
- 9 -
4. 
The Borrower, through SEMAC and SEOP, shall exercise its rights under the 
Technical Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Technical Cooperation Agreement or any of 
its provisions. 
 
C. 
Operational Manual 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the “Operational Manual”), which shall detail the 
procedures and guidelines for the execution, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the technical, procurement, disbursement, financial 
management, social and environmental requirements thereof);  
 
(b) 
the eligibility criteria for civil works under Part 1 of the Project; 
 
(c) 
the Indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation; 
 
(d) 
the functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff composition of the 
AGESUL CE; and 
 
(e) 
the safeguards policies documents, including the Environmental 
Assessment and the Involuntary Resettlement Framework.  
 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In case of any conflict or inconsistency between the 
terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause the Project to be carried out, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
E. 
Environmental and Social Provisions 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall carry out and shall cause AGESUL to carry out 
the Project in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the 
- 10 -
Environmental Assessment (including provisions regarding chance finding and 
protection of cultural property), and the Involuntary Resettlement Framework, 
when applicable. 
 
2.  
Prior to carrying out any civil works under Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall cause AGESUL to submit to the Bank evidence that environmental and 
social impacts have been identified and planned mitigation measures defined, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Assessment and the 
Involuntary Resettlement Framework, as applicable. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause AGESUL to ensure that any contractors that will carry 
out civil works under Part 1 of the Project shall perform their work in accordance 
with the technical and environmental practices for the Project, as set forth in the 
Environmental Assessment. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause AGESUL, with the assistance of SEOP, IMASUL, and 
SEMAC for their respective Parts of the Project, to monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
Indicators included in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than two months after the end of the period covered by such report. Additionally, 
each Project Report will also include a plan of the subsequent 12 months 
rehabilitation and surfacing investments planned by the Borrower under the 
Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause AGESUL to, at the earliest of: (a) March 30, 2013; or 
(b) the point when fifty percent (50%) of the Loan amount has been disbursed, 
carry out a review with the Bank on the overall progress in the execution of the 
Project, and set out the measures and take any remedial action as a result of such 
review, as agreed with the Bank. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause AGESUL to maintain a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause AGESUL to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later 
than 60 (sixty) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
- 11 -
3. 
The Borrower shall cause AGESUL to have the Project’s Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period. 
4. 
The Borrower shall, through SEOP and SEMAC, for their respective Parts of the 
Project, provide (and, in the case of Part 2.B of the Project, cause IMASUL to 
provide) AGESUL with all such information as AGESUL shall request for the 
purposes of complying with paragraphs 1 to 3 of Section II.B above.  
 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services.   All goods, works and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used.  
- 12 -
Procurement Method 
a) National Competitive Bidding, including in respect of goods, works and non-
consultant services, concorrência (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 8,666 of June 
21, 1993), including, in respect of goods and non-consultant services, pregão 
eletrônico (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 10,520 of July 17, 2002), under 
‘COMPRASNET’, the procurement portal of the Guarantor, or any other e-
procurement system approved by the Bank), subject to the following additional 
procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank.  
(b) Shopping, in respect of goods, works and non-consultant services (including, in 
respect of goods and non-consultant services, convite, registro de preços, pregão 
eletrônico (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 10,520, of July 17, 2002) subject to 
the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be 
acceptable to the Bank.  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS)  
(b) Least-Cost Selection (LCS) 
(c) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2. - 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Single-Source Selection (SSS) 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 15,000,000 or more; (b) each contract for 
goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 3,000,000 or 
more; and (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost 
the equivalent of USD 200,000 or more.  All International Competitive Bidding and 
single-source of consultants, as well as direct contracting for goods, consulting services 
- 13 -
and works, shall be prior reviewed by the Bank regardless of the amount involved. All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed  
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Works, Non-consultant 
 
services and consultant 
 
services for Part 1 of 
 
the Project 
 
272,750,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, Non-consultant 
 
services, Training and 
 
consultant services for 
 
Part 2 of the Project  
 
10,000,000 
 
100% 
(3) Unallocated 
 
16,500,000 
 
(4) Front-end Fee 
750,000  
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 
(b) 
of 
the 
General 
Conditions 
 
- 14 -
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed  
(inclusive of taxes)
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of the this 
Agreement  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000 
 
For purposes of this table, the terms: 
 
(a)  
“Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project and directly 
related to training activities described in the Project, including, inter alia, costs 
related to workshops, seminars, conferences, study tours, training registration 
fees, facility and equipment rentals, and local travel costs and per diem; and  
 
(b)  
“Non-consultant services” means reasonable expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower for services under the Project related, inter alia, to project management 
and data collection services. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments made within one year prior to this date but in no case before 
December 20, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for expenditures under category (2) unless the Technical Cooperation 
Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto.  
 
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 
 
Section V.
Other Undertakings
A. 
Without limitation to Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall 
ensure that counterpart funds in an amount of at least $75,000,000 shall be 
provided as required to accomplish the Project’s objective.  
 
- 15 -
B. 
Within six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause AGESUL to 
sign a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of the external 
financial audit referred to in Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September15 
Beginning September15, 2020  
through September 15, 2023 and  
from March 15, 2025 
through September 15, 2034 
 
3.57% 
On March 15, 2035 
3.61% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
- 17 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 18 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions
1. 
“AGESUL” means Agência Estadual de Gestão de Empreendimentos, the 
Borrower’s road administration department responsible for managing the 
Borrower’s road network, regulated by the Borrower’s Law Nº 2,152, of October 
26, 2000, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette Nº 5,376, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement, or its successor or successors thereto. 
 
2. 
“AGESUL CE” means Coordenação Executiva PDE/MS, the unit referred to in 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Decree Nº 12,549, dated November 18, 2009, and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette Nº 7,586 as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“CREMA” means Contrato de Reabilitação e Manutenção, which refers to 
output performance maintenance and rehabilitation contracts. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s assessment, dated December 
22nd 2009, of the Project environmental impacts, published in the AGESUL’s 
website (www.agesul.ms.gov.br), which identifies the existing environmental 
conditions and the potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the 
carrying out of the Project, and recommends mitigation measures for each 
negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified 
positive impact.  
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“IMASUL” means Instituto de Meio Ambiente do Mato Grosso do Sul, the 
Borrower’s 
environmental 
institute 
responsible 
for 
implementing 
and 
coordinating environmental management in the Borrower’s territory, created 
through the Borrower’s Decrees Nº. 12,230 and 12,231 of 2007, published in the 
- 19 -
Borrower’s Official Gazette Nº 6,882, as amended to the date of this Agreement, 
or its successor or successors thereto. 
 
10. 
“Indicators” means the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project, agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
11. 
“Involuntary Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s document dated 
December 
22, 
2009, 
published 
in 
the 
AGESUL’s 
website 
(www.agesul.ms.gov.br), specifying the population resettlement policies, planning 
principles, institutional arrangements, procurement arrangements and design 
criteria that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of the action plans for 
the resettlement of population under the Project.  
 
12. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, dated March 8, 2010, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank.   
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 28, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“SEMAC” means Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente, do Planejamento, da 
Ciência e Tecnologia, the Borrower’s Environment, Planning, Science and 
Technology Secretariat. 
 
16. 
“SEOP” means Secretaria de Estado de Obras Públicas e de Transportes, the 
Borrower’s Public Works and Transportation Secretariat. 
 
17. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to AGESUL. 
 
18. 
“Technical Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
- 20 -
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and 
as 
further 
specified 
in 
the 
Conversion 
Guidelines.”
- 21 -
