 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
  
 
LOAN NUMBER 7968-MX 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 (Additional Financing for the Support to Oportunidades Project) 
 
between 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 2, 2010
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7968-MX 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 2, 2010, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”) as represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as 
set forth in the table in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”)), shall be used in 
conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt 
laws and the terms of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion two hundred and fifty 
million Dollars ($1,250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower’s 
representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs 
the Bank, the Borrower’s representative for purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director of 
International Financial Institutions (Director de Organismos Financieros 
Internacionales) of NAFIN or any person or persons whom such representative 
shall designate in writing. 
 
-2- 
 
 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are August 15 and February 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may (or may cause NAFIN) at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable 
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower (or NAFIN at the request of 
the Borrower) has requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General 
 
-3- 
 
 
Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for the purpose 
in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEDESOL (through CN), 
and shall cause CONAFE to assist in carrying out Part 1(a) of the Project (as 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement), all in accordance with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through SEDESOL (through CN) shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
of the parties to the Contrato de Mandato, the BANSEFI Agreement, the 
TELECOMM Agreement and/or the DICONSA Agreement shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the Contrato de Mandato, the BANSEFI 
Agreement, the TELECOMM Agreement, and/or the DICONSA Agreement, 
respectively.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto; 
and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower (in SHCP’s and SEDESOL’s (through CN) legal opinions), 
NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by 
NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank) and CONAFE (in a separate 
legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by CONAFE counsel 
acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 
the Borrower, NAFIN and CONAFE and is legally binding upon the 
 
-4- 
 
 
Borrower, NAFIN and CONAFE in accordance with the Contrato de 
Mandato’s terms. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 9, 2012.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP. The 
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD 
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be 
(a) the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP or any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose, or 
(b) NAFIN’s Director of International Financial Institutions (Director de 
Organismos Financieros Internacionales).  
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General 
Conditions: 
 
 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
Facsimile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
 6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
-5- 
 
 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, United Mexican States, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
 
By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-6- 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to:  
 
(a) 
Increase the health, nutrition and education of poor families through 
investments in human capital by promoting regular health and nutrition 
check-ups among Oportunidades Beneficiaries, improving the health 
status of Oportunidades Beneficiaries, and raising school enrollment and 
attendance rates of the children of Oportunidades Beneficiaries; and 
 
(b) 
build sustainable connections between the Oportunidades Program and 
other social programs of the Borrower in order to improve health and 
education outcomes for the Oportunidades Beneficiaries. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project and amended 
solely for the purposes of the Loan, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part 1: Oportunidades Grants 
 
 
Provision of cash grants to families living in extreme poverty (identified in 
accordance with the methodology set forth in Section 3.2.1, 3.3 and 3.5 of the 
Operational Rules), as follows: 
 
(a) 
education grants, as referred to in Section 3.5.1 (Componente Educativo) 
of the Operational Rules, including all cash support under said Section 
3.5.1 of the Operational Rules, but excluding (i) the financing under 
Section 3.5.1.3 (Jóvenes con Oportunidades) of the Operational Rules 
and (ii) the in-kind support (learning supplies) under Section. 3.5.1.2 of 
the Operational Rules (but including the cash support under this same 
Section 3.5.1.2 of the Operational Rules); and  
 
 
(b) 
health related grants, as referred to in Section 3.5.2 (Componente de 
Salud) of the Operational Rules, including all cash support under Section 
3.5.3 (Componente Alimentario) of the Operational Rules (including the 
Apoyo Vivir Mejor but excluding the Apoyo Infantil Vivir Mejor) and the 
cash support under Section 3.5.3.1 (Apoyo Energético), but excluding the 
financing under Section 3.5.2.4 (Apoyo para Adultos Mayores) and the 
in-kind support under Section 3.5.3 ab initio of the Operational Rules. 
 
 
 
 
 
-7- 
 
 
 
Part 2: Technical Assistance 
 
 
Provision of technical assistance to finance studies additional to the studies 
financed under the Original Project to, inter alia:  
 
(a) 
increase the quality and accessibility of the health and education services 
used by Oportunidades Beneficiaries;  
 
(b) 
develop strategies to increase the level of self-sufficiency of 
Oportunidades Beneficiaries so that they are able to increase their well-
being;  
 
(c) 
improve the design and operation of the Oportunidades Program, 
including: (i) a review of the reasons for the incomplete take-up of the 
education grants referred under Part 1 (a) above by school-age children 
of Oportunidades Beneficiaries; and (ii) a study on possible community-
level activities to support the Project; and  
 
(d) 
implement the IPP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-8- 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, throughout Project 
implementation the Borrower (i) through SEDESOL (through CN) shall provide 
the funds for the implementation of Parts 1(b) and 2 of the Project and, (ii) 
through SEDESOL (through CN) shall cause CONAFE to provide the funds for 
the implementation of Part 1(a) of the Project.  
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
SEDESOL (through CN) shall carry out the Project (and shall cause CONAFE 
assist in the carrying out of Part 1(a) of the Project) in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, in coordination with SEP, Salud and IMSS as per Section 
I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not amend or waive or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any 
conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall maintain an operational 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, specific provisions on 
detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including:  
 
(i) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements 
thereof;  
 
(ii) 
the Key Performance Indicators; 
 
(iii) 
the Operational Rules;  
 
(iv) 
the IPP; and 
 
(v) 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall, by not later 
than a date ten (10) business days after the signing of this Agreement, issue a 
notice to BANSEFI, DICONSA and TELECOMM, including a copy of the Anti-
 
-9- 
 
 
Corruption Guidelines, exhorting BANSEFI, DICONSA and TELECOMM to 
comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines when managing Loan proceeds (as 
disbursed in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Agreement). 
 
5. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), and the Bank may 
otherwise agree, throughout Project implementation the Borrower shall, under 
the overall coordination of SEDESOL (through CN): 
 
(a) 
maintain a council and a technical committee (with the participation of 
SHCP, SEDESOL, CN, SEP, CONAFE, Salud and IMSS) which will, 
inter alia, provide general guidance for the Oportunidades Program, 
including the approval of the Operational Rules, the general supervision 
of the Project (and the Oportunidades Program), the approval of 
measures to ensure the efficient and transparent operation of the Project 
(and the Oportunidades Program), and the review of the performance of 
the Project in the States (and of the Oportunidades Program);  
 
(b) 
provide the health and education services related to the Project through 
SEP, CONAFE, Salud, and IMSS; and  
 
(c) 
maintain State level committees (with the participation of SEDESOL, 
SEP, CONAFE, Salud and IMSS), which will, inter alia, supervise and 
monitor the implementation of the Project at the State level. 
 
6.  
(a) 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall maintain 
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with BANSEFI, DICONSA and 
TELECOMM whereby BANSEFI, DICONSA and TELECOMM shall 
agree to distribute the Oportunidades Grants to the Oportunidades 
Beneficiaries. 
 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall exercise its rights 
and carry out its obligations under the Financial Institution Agreements 
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall 
not amend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Financial Institution Agreements in a manner that affects the compliance 
by the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), of the Borrower’s 
obligations under the Loan Agreement (including the provisions related 
to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines).  In case of any conflict between the 
terms of the Financial Institution Agreements and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
 
-10- 
 
 
7.  
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall ensure that the 
Oportunidades Beneficiaries comply with the obligations set forth under Section 
3.6 (Derechos, corresponsabilidades y suspensions de las familias beneficiarias) 
of the Operational Rules, including the following: 
 
 
(a) 
all household members shall visit health centers with the frequency 
established in the Operational Rules (said frequency to vary depending 
on the age and particular health circumstances of the relevant household 
member);  
 
 
(b) 
children or youth up to 21 years old enroll in school and attend classes on 
a regular basis as described in the Operational Rules; and 
 
 
(c) 
an adult member of each Oportunidades Beneficiary attends the 
Oportunidades Program monthly health information group sessions. 
 
B. 
Contrato de Mandato 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato) 
among NAFIN, SEDESOL (through CN) and CONAFE, satisfactory to the 
Bank, whereby: 
 
(a) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees 
to maintain and operate the designated account (referred to in the 
additional instructions cited in Section IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement) in compliance with the terms of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), agrees to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, including 
the IPP, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and the Operational Manual;  
 
(d) 
CONAFE agrees that, in its assistance to SEDESOL for the carrying out 
of Part 1(a) of the Project, CONAFE shall comply with the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines;  
 
(e) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or 
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the 
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its 
 
-11- 
 
 
effects, or, if applicable, require the restitution of funds transferred to 
NAFIN under said Contrato de Mandato; and  
 
(f) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SEDESOL (through CN), the 
Borrower shall, and shall cause CONAFE to, cooperate fully with 
NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN’s 
obligations referred to in paragraph (a) and (b) of this Section. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank 
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato.  In case of any conflict 
between the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  In this regard, the Borrower, 
through SEDESOL (through CN) or through any other entity as the Borrower 
may deem appropriate, shall, inter alia, ensure compliance with paragraph 9 (d) 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines as follows: 
 
(a) 
by requiring BANSEFI,  DICONSA and TELECOMM to take 
appropriate measures to prevent, inform on, respond to and investigate 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and obstructive practices with 
respect to their payment (or that of their agents) of Oportunidades 
Grants; 
 
(b) 
by allowing the Bank to inspect accounts, records and other documents 
of BANSEFI, DICONSA and/or TELECOMM relating to the Project 
upon the Bank’s request and in the company of SEDESOL 
representatives (through CN); 
 
(c) 
by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and 
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank’s 
terms of reference for such purpose, with the collaboration of the 
Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN); 
 
(d) 
by agreeing to suspend or terminate BANSEFI’s, DICONSA’S and/or 
TELECOMM’s right to process Bank financed proceeds derived from 
the Loan or from any other agreement with the Bank, if the Bank has 
declared BANSEFI, DICONSA and/or TELECOMM, as the case may 
be, ineligible under paragraph 11 of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and 
 
-12- 
 
 
 
(e) 
by agreeing to obtain restitution from BANSEFI, DICONSA and/or 
TELECOMM, as the case may be, of any amount of the Loan with 
respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred, 
 
all of the above pursuant to audit, transparency, control, restitution and 
information sharing clauses within the BANSEFI Agreement, the DICONSA 
Agreement, the TELECOMM Agreement, the Operational Rules and/or any 
other means (including, but not limited to the Borrower’s rights under the Federal 
Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law, and the General Public Debt Law). 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of Key 
Performance Indicators. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five 
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through SEDESOL (through CN), shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of 
the Project Report not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), shall have the Project Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-13- 
 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under 
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
3. 
Special Provisions.  The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN) shall: (a) 
supply the SEPA with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan 
within 30 days after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (b) update 
the Procurement Plan at least every year, or as required by the Bank, to reflect 
the actual Project implementation needs and progress and supply the SEPA with 
the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately 
thereafter. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget  
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Single Source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the selection of Individual Consultants 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-14- 
 
 
 
 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions). 
 
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on 
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to 
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions.  The remaining proceeds of the Loan 
shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A.1 
immediately above.  Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided 
under the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures. 
 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the 
Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Oportunidades Grants 
 
 
1,244,000,000 
100% 
(2) Consultants Services 
 
 
2,345,000 
100% 
(3) Operating Costs 
 
 
530,000 
100% 
(4) Front-end fee  
 
3,125,000 
100% 
 
-15- 
 
 
 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps 
and 
Interest 
rate 
Collars (amounts due under 
section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement) 
 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
1,250,000,000 
 
 
For purposes of this Section IV.A the term “Operating Costs” means the 
reasonable costs for salaries of staff of the Borrower in charge of Project implementation, 
which would have not been incurred absent the Project.  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made:  
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made within twelve (12) months 
prior to the date of this Agreement but not before March 1, 2010; and 
 
(b) 
under Category (1) unless the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through 
CN), has issued a notice to BANSEFI, DICONSA and TELECOMM 
including a copy of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, exhorting 
BANSEFI, DICONSA and TELECOMM to comply with the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines when managing Loan proceeds (as disbursed in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in this Agreement). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
 
 
 
-16- 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on August 15, 
2027. 
 
 
 
-17- 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“BANSEFI” means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C., 
a Mexican development bank created pursuant to the BANSEFI Organic Law (or 
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank). 
3. 
“BANSEFI Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), and the BANSEFI on January 22, 
2002, and any other renewal or amendment thereof (including, but not limited to, 
the agreement dated September 26, 2007), whereby BANSEFI will continue to 
make available to each Oportunidades Beneficiary the Oportunidades Grants in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement under terms and conditions to 
such effect, satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
“BANSEFI Organic Law” means the Borrower’s law Ley Orgánica del Banco 
del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros published on June 1, 2001 in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación), and said term 
includes the regulations to said law, as said law and regulations have been 
amended to the date of this Agreement (including the amendment dated August 
1, 2005). 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“CN” means Coordinación Nacional del Programa de Desarrollo Humano 
Oportunidades, a deconcentrated unit (órgano desconcentrado) within 
SEDESOL in charge of the implementation of the Oportunidades Program as 
created by the Borrower’s Decree published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(Diario Oficial de la Federación) on August 8, 1997 as amended through March 
6, 2002 (or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank). 
7. 
“CONAFE” means Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo, the Borrower’s 
National Council for Educational Development, a decentralized public entity of the 
Borrower, with its own budget and separate legal personality, created pursuant to 
the CONAFE Decree (or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank).  
 
-18- 
 
 
8. 
“CONAFE Decree” means the Borrower’s decree dated September 9, 1971, as 
amended through December 31, 1981, published on February 11, 1982 in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación), and said term 
includes the regulations to said decree, as said decree and regulations have been 
amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
10. 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the agreement to be entered into among the 
Borrower, through SHCP, SEDESOL (through CN), CONAFE and NAFIN (as 
hereinafter defined), pursuant to Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
11. 
“DICONSA” means “DICONSA, S.A. de C.V.” a company in which the 
Borrower’s controls the majority of its shares, originally incorporated on April 
28, 1986 with the modifications approved by the company’s shareholders 
through the date of this Agreement (or any successor thereto acceptable to the 
Bank).  
 
12. 
“DICONSA Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), and the DICONSA on January 2, 
2009, and any other renewal or amendment thereof, whereby DICONSA will 
continue to make available to each Oportunidades Beneficiary the 
Oportunidades Grants in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement under 
terms and conditions to such effect, satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
13. 
“Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Federal Law” means the Borrower’s 
Ley Federal de Presupuesto y Responsabilidad Hacendaria, as said law and its 
subsequent amendments have been published in the Official Gazette through  
September 4, 2009. 
 
14. 
“Financial Institution Agreement” means the TELECOMM Agreement, the 
BANSEFI Agreement or the DICONSA Agreement and “Financial Institution 
Agreements” means the TELECOMM Agreement, the BANSEFI Agreement and 
the DICONSA Agreement. 
 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
16. 
“General Public Debt Law” means the Borrower’s Ley General de Deuda 
Pública, as said law and its subsequent amendments have been published in the 
Official Gazette through December 21, 1995. 
 
 
-19- 
 
 
17. 
“Hedging Guidelines” means the Bank’s Guidelines for Using Hedging Products 
dated March 23, 2009 or any later guidelines issued by the Bank to replace said 
guidelines.  
 
18. 
“IMSS” means Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, a decentralized public 
entity of the Borrower, with separate legal personality, separate budget and fiscal 
autonomy, created pursuant to the Social Insurance Law, or any successor thereto 
acceptable to the Bank. 
19. 
“IPP” means the Borrower’s indigenous peoples plan furnished to the Bank on 
February 19, 2009, as said plan may be updated, from time to time, to reflect the 
lessons learned through the implementation of the Original Project, with the 
agreement of the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CN), and the Bank. 
 
20. 
 “Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and evaluating 
progress towards the attainment of Project objectives, set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
21. 
“NAFIN” means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Mexican development bank 
serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 
 
22. 
“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s Diario Oficial de la Federación. 
 
23. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, dated October 4, 2010, as said manual may be amended 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.  
 
24. 
“Operational Rules” means the Borrower’s operational rules for the 
Oportunidades Program published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on December 29, 2009 as these may be amended from 
time to time as discussed with the Bank. 
 
25. 
“Oportunidades Beneficiary” means any of the families referred to in Part 1 of 
the Project and “Oportunidades Beneficiaries” means any two or more of said 
families. 
 
26. 
“Oportunidades Grant” means any of the grants to be provided under Part 1 of 
the Project.  
 
27. 
“Oportunidades Program” means the Borrower’s program to assist poor families 
through the provision of cash transfers conditional on compliance with conditions 
referred to in the Operational Rules.  
 
 
-20- 
 
 
28. 
“Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, dated April 25, 
2009 (Loan No. 7708-MX). 
  
29. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated August 9, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
30. 
“Salud” means Secretaría de Salud, the Borrower’s Health Ministry. 
 
31. 
“SEDESOL” means Secretaría de Desarrollo Social, the Borrower’s Social 
Development Ministry. 
 
32. 
“SEP” means the Borrower’s Public Education Ministry (Secretaría de Educación 
Pública). 
 
33. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
 
34. 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s 
Finance and Public Credit Ministry.  
 
35. 
“Social Insurance Law” means the Borrower’s law (Ley del Seguro Social) 
published on December 21, 1995 in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación), and said term includes the regulations to said law, as 
said law and regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement 
(including the amendment to said law dated December 4, 2008 and published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación) on January 16, 
2009). 
36. 
“State” means any of the thirty one political subdivisions of the Borrower and the 
Federal District.  
37. 
“TELECOMM” means Telecomunicaciones de México, a decentralized public 
entity of the Borrower, with separate legal personality, created pursuant to the 
TELECOMM Decree (or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank).  
38. 
“TELECOMM Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower through SEDESOL (through CN), and TELECOMM on March 23, 
2004, and any other renewal or amendment thereof (including, but not limited to, 
the agreement dated November 30, 2009), whereby TELECOMM will continue 
to make available to each Oportunidades Beneficiary the Oportunidades Grants 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement under terms and conditions 
to such effect, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
-21- 
 
 
 
39. 
“TELECOMM Decree” means the Borrower’s decree Decreto por el que se crea 
un Organismo Decentralizado denominado Telégrafos Nacionales published on 
August 20, 1986 in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la 
Federación), and entered into effect on August 21, 1986, and said term includes 
the regulations to said law, as said law and regulations have been amended to the 
date of this Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
 
-22- 
 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
 
 
