CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7935-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Energy Efficiency Financing II Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 11, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 11, 2010, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing Part A of the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions.  
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 -
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (“Minsheng”) to 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
- 3 -
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve energy efficiency of selected 
enterprises, and thereby reduce their adverse environmental impacts through scaling-up 
commercial lending for energy efficiency investments. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Energy Efficiency Investment Sub-projects  
 
Provide Sub-loans to Sub-loan Beneficiaries for carrying out energy efficiency 
Sub-projects.   
 
Part B:  Technical Assistance and Capacity Building  
 
Strengthen the capacity of Minsheng in: (a) identifying and appraising Sub-
projects and conducting eligibility due diligence on Sub-loan Beneficiaries;  
(b) developing credit and risk management processes for energy efficiency 
investments; (c) managing the social and environmental impacts of the Project 
and its future energy efficiency lending portfolio; (d) developing low-carbon 
lending business; and (e) exploring the application of the Equator Principles in its 
lending practices.   
 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation and Financing Arrangements 
 
Institutional Arrangements   
 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project 
Management Office throughout the period of implementation of the Project, with 
terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be 
responsible for providing policy guidance and technical support in the 
implementation of the Project.  
 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
 
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by Minsheng, the Borrower shall 
make the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) under the table in 
Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule 2 available to Minsheng under a subsidiary loan 
agreement (Subsidiary Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and Minsheng  
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following 
principal terms and conditions:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and the amount 
of the Premium paid pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement, shall 
be paid in full on December 15, 2027.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Minsheng shall utilize the proceeds of the Loan exclusively in 
accordance with this Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree 
in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions, which in the opinion of the 
Bank, will affect materially and adversely the ability of Minsheng to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement for the Loan. 
- 7 -
Anti-Corruption 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Other Undertakings 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Minsheng’s Articles of Association shall not be  
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of Minsheng to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement for the Loan. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall 
cause Minsheng to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
in Annex A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one (1) calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such 
calendar year.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions, and each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the 
Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
- 8 -
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply 
to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
2. 
Other Method of Procurement of Goods and works.
The following table 
specifies the method of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan and the 
Operational Manual prepared by Minsheng shall specify the circumstances under 
which such method may be used. 
 
Procurement Method: 
(a)  Procurement in Loans to Financial Intermediaries 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
All ICB contracts for goods and works shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review, regardless of their contract value. All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 9 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to: (a) finance the Front-end Fee in 
accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General Conditions; and (b) finance 
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Sub-loans under Part A 
of the Project 
 
99,750,000 
 
100% of Sub-loan  
amount disbursed 
 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
 
250,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b)  
of the General Conditions 
(3) Premium for Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the  
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
- 10 -
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after March 23, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1), 
provided that the requirements set out in paragraph 2, Section I of 
Schedule to the Project Agreement have been met; and  
 
(b) 
for payments under Category (1), unless, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement  
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank has been entered into 
between the Borrower and Minsheng pursuant to paragraph 2 of  
Section I of this Schedule 2. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on  
December 15, 2027. 
 
- 12 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
(1) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
(2) 
“Category” means the category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
(3) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
(4) 
“Environmental Impact Assessment Framework” means the Environmental 
Impact Assessment Framework dated October 5, 2009, prepared and adopted by 
Minsheng, which sets forth policies and procedures for the preliminary screening 
of proposed Sub-projects (as defined hereafter), and for the preparation of 
environmental assessment and environment management plans therefor during 
the implementation of the Project, as said framework may be amended from time 
to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to said framework. 
 
(5) 
“Equator Principles” means a voluntary set of guidelines for determining, 
assessing, and managing social and environmental risks in the project finance 
sector based on the policies of the International Finance Corporation.  
 
(6) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
(7) 
“Minsheng” means China Minsheng Banking Corporation Limited established in 
January 1996 as a shareholding limited company according to the Borrower’s 
relevant laws and operating pursuant to its Articles of Association dated July 16, 
2009, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and to its Business License No. 
1000001001898 (4-2) dated February 7, 1996, issued by the Borrower’s State 
Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
- 13 -
(8) 
“NDRC” means the Borrower’s National Development and Reform Commission, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
(9) 
“On-lending Office” means the on-lending office of the PIE (as defined 
hereafter) referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement.  
 
(10) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated May 11, 2010, adopted by 
Minsheng, and referred to in paragraph 2(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as such Manual may be amended from time to time with the 
prior written approval by the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to said manual. 
 
(11) 
“Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of 
Displaced Persons” means the Framework dated September 28, 2009, prepared 
and adopted by Minsheng, and referred to in paragraph 4(b) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement; said Framework setting out the policies and 
procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of 
resettlement action plans as may be required for Project activities, as said  
Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written concurrence 
of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to said Framework.  
(12) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
(13) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Minsheng of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(14) 
“Project Implementing Entity” and the acronym “PIE” mean Minsheng, and any 
successor thereto. 
(15) 
“Project Management Office” means the Project Management Office established 
by NDRC  under the Energy Efficiency Financing Project (Loan numbers 7529-
CN and 7530-CN) under which closing date may be extended as needed, and 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
(16) 
“Renminbi” and the acronym “RMB” mean the currency of the Borrower. 
 
(17) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and Minsheng pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to 
- 14 -
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with prior 
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and 
supplements to said agreement. 
 
(18) 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made by Minsheng to a Sub-loan Beneficiary (as 
defined hereafter) out of the proceeds of the Loan for the financing and carrying 
out of a Sub-project under Part A of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the 
Project Agreement and the Operational Manual; and the term “Sub-loans” means, 
collectively, all such Sub-loans. 
 
(19) 
“Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between  
Minsheng  and a Sub-loan Beneficiary for purposes of providing a Sub-loan for 
the financing and carrying out of a Sub-project pursuant to paragraph 6 of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said agreement; and “Sub-
loan Agreements” means, collectively, all of said Sub-loan Agreements. 
 
(20) 
“Sub-loan Beneficiary” means an industrial enterprise, or an energy service 
company (ESCO), established, operating and in good standing pursuant to the 
relevant laws and regulations of the Borrower, selected to carry out a Sub-project 
pursuant to the eligibility criteria set out in the Operational Manual; and the term 
“Sub-loan Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such Sub-loan Beneficiaries. 
 
(21) 
“Sub-project” means an eligible energy efficiency investment project under Part 
A of the Project to be carried out by a Sub-loan Beneficiary, using financing 
from the proceeds of a Sub-loan, all in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual and the relevant provisions in the Project Agreement; and 
the term “Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Sub-projects.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
- 15 -
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
