CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7955-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Renovating and Strengthening Public Management   
(PRÓ-GESTÃO) Technical Assistance Project –
Programa de Renovação e Fortalecimento da Gestão Pública - PRÓ-GESTÃO )
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
 
Dated November 22, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November22,  2010, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and STATE OF RIO DE 
JANEIRO (“Borrower”).  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighteen million six hundred 
seventy-three thousand dollars (US$18,673,000.00), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is its Secretary of Planning and Management.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
- 2 -
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor, through its Secretariat of the National Treasury, request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to 
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEPLAG, 
with the assistance of: (a) SEEDUC for Part 2 of the Project; and (b) SESDEC 
for Part 3 of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
- 3 -
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementation Unit Regulation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Program has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has 
been registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on February 26, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Governor.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Avenida Erasmo Braga, 118, 13º andar 
20020-000 - Rio de Janeiro, RJ  
Brazil. 
Facsimile: (55-21) 2332-7020 
 
With copies to: 
 
- 4 -
Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda 
Rua da Alfândega, 48, 1.º andar 
20070-000 – Rio de Janeiro, RJ 
Brazil 
Facsimile (55-21) 2334-4535 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Rio de Janeiro, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
 
By /s/ Sérgio Cabral 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower to introduce performance-
based management and information technologies to drive service delivery improvements 
in key public services, including secondary education and hospital care, all in the 
Borrower’s territory. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Core Administrative Systems and Management Tools for Improved 
Performance and Efficiency 
 
Support:  (a) the identification of suitable performance indicators and the design 
of the Borrower’s version of an instrument for result-based management, as well as the 
acquisition of related information and technology (IT) hardware.; (b) data collection for 
the Borrower’s real property database; and (c) strengthening of  the Borrower’s social 
security management.    
 
Part 2. Strengthening Education Management Capacity, Teacher Instructional 
Practice and Incentives for School Effectiveness 
 
Support to: (a) evaluate the impacts and cost effectiveness of at least two of the 
Borrower’s strategic programs (including Projeto Autonomia and Conexão Educação); 
(b) evaluate school-level expenditures and performance, and establish school-level 
performance targets to improve school quality by translating test results into specific 
school improvement plans with monitorable targets; and (c) develop effective in-service 
training courses for teachers at the Borrower’s Casa do Educador.
Part 3. Health Management and Information Systems 
 
Support: (a) the initial application of an accreditation system for the new Urgent 
Care Facilities; (b) the development of a cost-accounting system for said Urgent Care 
Facilities; (c) the implementation of a new information system for medical supply-chain 
management; and (d) a new monitoring system to improve the incentive effects of the 
Program to Support Municipal Hospitals. 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
(a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried 
out, in accordance with the Project Operational Manual, the Procurement Plan, 
the pertinent Annual Operating Plan, the JCI International Standards of Hospital 
Accreditation; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend or waive any provision of these documents without the Bank’s 
prior written approval.  In case of any conflict between the terms of said 
documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, 
a Project implementation unit (the Project Implementation Unit) and with 
competent staff in adequate numbers with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance, as applicable, with the provisions of 
Section III of this Schedule, including the following key staff: a general 
coordinator, a coordinator for institutional relationships, a technical  coordinator, 
a financial management coordinator and a monitoring and evaluation coordinator. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, until the completion of the execution of the 
Project, regular meetings between SEPLAG, SEEDUC and SESDEC to convene 
at least once every quarter; and (b) immediately thereafter, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a copy of the minutes of each said meetings. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, at least once a year during Project implementation on or 
about December 1, commencing on the first such date after the Effective Date, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan (the Annual Operating Plan), acceptable to 
the Bank, for the Project’s operation during the following twelve months. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
- 7 -
C. 
Safeguards 
Hospital Waste Management   
 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Unit, shall  implement Part 3 
(a) of the Project in accord with the JCI International Standards of Hospital 
Accreditation. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Unit, shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAG, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through SEPLAG, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than thirty days 
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for 
the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAG, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
- 8 -
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Non-consultant Services .  All goods and Non-consultant services  
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and Non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-consultant services. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, including in respect of goods and non-consultant 
services, pregão eletrônico (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 10520 of July 17, 
2002), subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding 
documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) Shopping, including in respect of goods and non-consultant services, pregão 
eletrônico (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 10520 of July 17, 2002), subject to 
the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
(c) Direct Contracting. 
- 9 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultant’s Qualifications 
(d) Single-Source Selection 
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in 
Paragraphs 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 10 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, Non-
consultant services, 
consultant services and 
training under the 
Project 
 
18,026,317 
 
100% 
(2) Operating Costs 
600,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
46,683 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
18,673,000 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this table: 
 
(a) the term “training” means expenditures (other than for Non-consultant 
services) incurred in connection with the carrying out of training activities, 
seminars, and workshops under the Project, including the reasonable travel 
cost, accommodation and per-diem of the trainers and trainees, training 
materials, rental costs and scholarships (tuition only);  
(b)  the term “Operating Costs” means the operational costs, which would not 
have been incurred by the Project Implementation Unit, absent the Project, 
for, inter alia, operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel, spare 
parts and insurance, maintenance of the monitoring and information system, 
travel accommodation and per diem costs for technical staff carrying out 
supervisory and quality control activities, equipment and computer 
maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and rent for office facilities, but 
excluding expenditures for salaries and related benefits; and 
 
(c)  the term “Non-consultant services” means expenditures related to services of 
technical nature, which do not have an intellectual component, and that can 
be contracted solely on the basis of price, including, inter alia, catering, 
publications and printing.  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. The Bank shall only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank 
that it agrees with such extension. 
 
- 11 -
Section V.
Other Undertakings
Without limitations to the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall by October 31, 2012, or such other date as the 
Bank shall agree upon: (a) carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of 
the implementation of the Project, which shall cover the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project; and (b) following such mid-term review, act 
promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be recommended by 
the Bank.  
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2014  
 
through November 15, 2029 
 
3.03% 
On May 15, 2030 
3.04% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
- 13 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 14 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Annual Operating Plan” means an annual operating plan to be prepared by the 
Borrower on or about December 1 each Project year as per Section I. A. 4 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Casa do Educador” means the Borrower’s program, as created and operating 
under the Borrower’s Law Nº 5693, dated April 16, 2010, for in-service training 
of teachers of the Borrower’s education network, said training to be delivered 
through regional training hubs and online courses. 
 
4. 
“Conexão Educação” means the Borrower’s program to generate management 
information concerning teacher attendance and use of school lunch programs and 
transportation for students, as created and operating under the Borrower’s 
Resolution Nº 4455 dated May 05, 2010. 
 
5. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
8. 
“JCI International Standards of Hospital Accreditation” means the Joint 
Commission International Accreditation Standards for Hospitals (4th Edition) 
document dated July 2010, published and available to the public on the website 
http://www.jointcommissioninternational.org/Accreditation-
Manuals/IAS400/1543/, which contains the environmental principles and policies 
that shall apply to the hospital waste management under the Project. 
 
9. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
- 15 -
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 21, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
11. 
“Program” means PRO-GESTÃO, the Borrower’s program to improve public 
administration and management, as established and operating under the 
Borrower’s Law Nº 5282, dated June 30, 2008, as amended by Law Nº 5336, 
dated November 28, 2008. 
 
12. 
“Program to Support Municipal Hospitals” means Programa de Apoio aos 
Hospitais do Interior – PAHI, the Borrower’s program to support municipal 
hospitals through budget transfers to municipal governments contingent upon 
reaching specified health sector performance targets, as created and operating 
under the Borrower’s Resolution Nº 843 dated September 25, 2009, and 
Borrower’s Resolution Nº 845 dated September 30, 2009. 
 
13. 
“Project Implementation Unit” means the Project implementation unit referred to 
in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement within SEPLAG in charge of 
the daily implementation of the Project and operating under the Project 
Implementation Unit Regulation. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementation Unit Regulation” means the Borrower’s Decree Nº 
42437, dated April 30, 2010. 
 
15. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project, 
satisfactory to the Bank,  adopted by the Borrower through  Resolution Nº 277, 
dated April 14, 2010, which shall contain, inter alia: (i) the terms of reference, 
functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the Project Implementation 
Unit in charge of daily Project coordination and monitoring; (ii) the procedures 
for procurement of works, goods, Non-consultant services  and consultants’ 
services for the Project, as well as for financial management and audits of the 
Project; (iii) the flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds; (iv) the 
staffing plan for the Project Implementation Unit; (v) the Annual Operating Plan 
for the first year of the Project; and (vi) the JCI International Standards of 
Hospital Accreditation.  
 
16. 
“Projeto Autonomia” means the Borrower’s program for accelerated education 
for students who are older than the norm for a given school grade, as created and 
operating under the Borrower’s Resolution Nº 4409, dated February 12, 2010. 
 
17. 
 “SEEDUC” means Secretaria de Educação, the Borrower’s Secretariat for 
Education, as created and operating under the Borrower’s Decree Nº 40486 dated 
January 1, 2007. 
- 16 -
18. 
 “SEPLAG” means Secretaria de Planejamento e Gestão, the Borrower’s 
Secretariat for Planning and Management, as created and operating under the 
Borrower’s Decree Nº 40486 dated January 1, 2007. 
 
19. 
“SESDEC” means Secretaria da Saúde e da Defesa Civil, the Borrower’s 
Secretariat for Health and Public Safety, as created and operating under the 
Borrower’s Decree Nº 40486 dated, January 1, 2007. 
 
20. 
“Urgent Care Facilities” (Unidades de Pronto Atendimento)
means the 
Borrower’s health care units designed to provide 24-hour access to primary 
emergency care services, as created and operating under the Borrower’s 
Ordinance (Portaria) Nº 1020 dated May 13, 2009. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
- 17 -
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III.
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
- 18 -
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
