CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7882-CN  
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Shandong Ecological Afforestation Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 17, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 17, 2010, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Dollars 
(USD60,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (“Shandong”) to 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and of the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
86-10-6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/  Klaus Rohland 
4
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to demonstrate effective 
afforestation models for environmentally degraded areas in support of Shandong’s 
environmental afforestation programs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A:  Environmental Plantation Establishment Sub-projects 
 
 
1. 
Re-vegetation of degraded mountainous areas through planting of tree and shrub 
vegetation on highly degraded hill sides with a shallow soil cover.   
 
2. 
Establishing protection forest plantations on saline coastal areas by planting trees 
and shrubs along roads, canals, and in areas designated for afforestation to 
protect agricultural land, improve productivity, and stabilize the newly created 
alluvial land near the mouth of the Yellow River. 
 
Part B: Technical Support and Project Management  
 
1. 
Upgrading nurseries to propagate a wider number of shrub and tree species, 
including, inter alia, improving seedling quality, nursery equipment, and on-site 
irrigation system; and providing training to small nurseries in nursery 
management and seedling requirements. 
 
2. 
Supporting applied research, extension and demonstration programs to generate 
and disseminate a wider range of tree species and planting techniques. 
 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of Project implementing agencies at the provincial 
and local levels in Project management, monitoring, and evaluation through the 
provision of technical assistance, training, and study tours. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements
Financing Arrangements 
 
1.
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to Shandong, under 
the following principal terms: 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the Front-end Fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall 
be recovered over a period of twenty seven (27) years, inclusive of a 
grace period of eight (8) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Anti-Corruption 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall 
cause Shandong to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
in Annex 1 to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning on February 15, 2011.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A.1 of this Section II above, 
the Borrower shall cause Shandong to prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank on or about August 15, 2013, a 
mid-term report on the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding such report and setting out the measures recommended to 
7
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause Shandong to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for 
the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
8
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55  
and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of 
the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with 
the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which 
may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum 
of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
9
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall 
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or Shandong, as the case may 
be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the 
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount 
of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or 
Shandong, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to 
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
10 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (i) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are 
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the 
procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered 
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
Shandong shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
(b)  
Shopping  
(c)        Community Participation in Procurement 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely of national consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
11 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection  
(b)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single-source Selection 
(d)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)       Sole-source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; (b) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more;  
(c) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more for firms, and $50,000 or more for individuals; and (d) each 
contract proposed to be awarded under Single-source Selection and Sole-source 
Selection procedures.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
12 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars) 
% of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
1. Sub-financing under Part A of 
the Project 
56,814,000 
 
63% 
 
2. Civil works under Part B.1 of 
the Project 
491,000 
45% 
 
3. Goods and equipment under 
Part B of the Project  
1,049,000 
100% 
4. Consultants’ services, training, 
and study tours under Part B of 
the Project 
1,496,000 
 
100%  
5. Front-end Fee 
 
150,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
6.  Premium for Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL 
60,000,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Procedures, and Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after  
September 1, 2009 for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
Withdrawals for Sub-financing under Category 1 shall be made in 
accordance with the procedures and arrangements set forth in the Annex to 
this Schedule. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2016. 
 
13 
 
ANNEX  
to  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Unit Costs Disbursement  
 
1. 
A Sub-financing to a Project Beneficiary shall be calculated on the basis of the 
following established output unit cost for activities under Part A of the Project, or 
such other output unit cost as may be established by the Bank after consultation 
with, and notification to, the Borrower and Shandong. 
 
Costs 
Loan disbursement (RMB/ha) 
Afforestation Models 
RMB/ha 
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Degraded mountain protection 
 
 
 
 
Afforestation Models 1, 2, 4, 7, 
and 8 
11,700 
6340 
500 
500 
Afforestation Models 3, 5, and 6 
9,000 
4,640 
500 
500 
Saline coastal area protection 
 
Afforestation Models 1, 2, and 3 
7,100 
3,450 
500 
500 
Afforestation Models 4, and 5 
8,000 
4,020 
500 
500 
2. 
Withdrawals under a Sub-financing shall be made only after: (a) County PMO 
has carried out an inspection of a Sub-project financed by the said Sub-financing 
after its completion; and (b) the PPMO, on the basis of reports issued by a 
respective County PMO, has certified in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank of the following: 
 
(i) 
number of hectares of plantations/vegetations completed under Part A of 
the Project  (hereinafter called “Output” and collectively “Outputs”); 
 
(ii) 
that the Output or Outputs achieved are compliant with the provisions of 
the Implementation Agreements entered into pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph 5(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement 
and of the Project Implementation Plan, including the quality, technical 
standards and specifications, and environment and social safeguards 
measures set out therein;  
 
(iii) 
that the amount to be so withdrawn with respect of expenditures under 
Category 1 is equal to the amount resulting from multiplying the Output 
or Outputs times the established unit costs set forth in the unit costs 
disbursement models in this Annex, or such other output unit costs as 
may be updated by the Bank in consultation with and notification to the 
Borrower and Shandong; 
 
14 
 
(iv) 
that the amount calculated referred to in sub-paragraph (iii) above does 
not exceed the actual costs of the  plantation works of each such Output; 
and 
 
(v) 
that the said Output or Outputs have not already been claimed by the 
Borrower to support a previous withdrawal application from the Loan 
Account. 
 
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning October 15, 2018 through 
October 15, 2036 
2.63% 
On April 15, 2037 
2.69% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
16 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
17 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
(1) 
“Afforestation Models” means the different plantation design developed for the 
Project based on agro-ecological conditions in the Project areas which is 
described in the Project Implementation Plan (as defined hereunder). 
 
(2) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
(3) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(4) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
(5) 
“County PLG” means each Project Leading Group established in each 
Participating County and referred to in Section I, paragraph 1(c) of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
(6) 
“County PMO” means each Project Management Office established in each 
Participating County and referred to in Section I, paragraph 1(d) of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
(7) 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” mean the plan, 
dated March 1, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection measures 
in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements 
to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
(8) 
“Environmental Protection Guidelines” means the guidelines for environmental 
protection for the Project, dated March 1, 2010, included as a part of the EMP, 
which set out environmental protection measures as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures, as such 
Guidelines may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
(9) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
18 
 
(10) 
“Implementation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between a 
County PMO and a Project Beneficiary pursuant to the provisions in  
paragraph 5(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and 
“Implementation Agreements” means the plural thereof. 
 
(11) 
“Participatory Planning Manual” means the manual dated March 1, 2010 and 
referred to in paragraph 3(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
(12) 
“Pest Management Plan” means the plan, dated March 1, 2010, included as a part 
of the EMP and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended with the prior agreement of the 
Bank. 
 
(13) 
“PLG” means the Project Leading Group maintained pursuant to paragraph 1(a) 
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
(14) 
“PPMO” means the Provincial Project Management Office maintained pursuant 
to paragraph 1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
(15) 
“Prefecture Project Leading Group” means the leading group referred to in 
paragraph 1(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
(16) 
“Prefecture Project Management Office” means the prefecture project 
management office referred to in paragraph 1(d) of Section I of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement.    
 
(17) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
(18) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 1, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(19) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Shandong of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(20) 
“Project Beneficiary” means a household, a farmer group, a village, or a state 
forest farm participating in the Project on a voluntary basis to carry out a Sub-
19 
 
project and receiving financing from the proceeds of the Loan for carrying out 
said Sub-project, all in accordance with the provisions of the Implementation 
Agreement, and the term “Project Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the plural 
thereof. 
 
(21) 
“Project County” means a county selected or to be selected to participate in one 
or more Parts of the Project pursuant to the selection criteria as set out in the 
Project Implementation Plan, and the term “Project Counties” means the plural 
thereof.   
 
(22) 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Province of Shandong and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(23) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan dated March 1, 2010 and referred 
to in paragraph 3(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(24) 
“Project Prefecture” means a prefecture selected or to be selected to participate in 
one or more Parts of the Project pursuant to the selection criteria as set out in the 
Project Implementation Plan, and the term “Project Prefectures” means the plural 
thereof.   
 
(25) 
“Sub-financing” means a grant to be made by the Project Implementing Entity 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Project Beneficiary under an Implementation 
Agreement for carrying out activities under Part A of the Project.  
 
(26) 
“Sub-project” means the activities to be carried out by a Project Beneficiary 
under Part A of the Project pursuant to the terms and conditions of the relevant 
Implementation Agreement and the relevant provisions of the Project 
Implementation Plan, and the term “Sub-projects” means the plural thereof.    
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
20 
 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
