CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7944-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Strengthening the National System of Science, Technology and Innovation Project) 
(APL Phase I) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 2, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 2, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, through the Departamento Administrativo de 
Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación (COLCIENCIAS), has delivered to the Bank a letter 
from the Director of COLCIENCIAS dated April 22, 2010, describing the Borrower’s 
strategy and objectives to enhance its ability to generate, disseminate and apply 
knowledge to support its social and economic development (the Program), and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program.  
 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, has requested that the 
Bank support its execution of the Program through this Loan (as hereinafter defined) and 
expressed its interest in seeking future Bank support through another loan, subject to 
required approvals pursuant to the Borrower’s domestic legislation, both considered as 
distinct phases of an adaptable program lending (APL) sequence and to be utilized by the 
Borrower in the implementation of the Program. 
 
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty five million Dollars 
($25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change 
of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through 
COLCIENCIAS in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out, through COLCIENCIAS, in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
COLCIENCIAS’ Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the ability of COLCIENCIAS to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and prior consultation on this matter 
between the Bank and the Borrower has been conducted. 
 
(b) 
An action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of the Francisco José de Caldas Fund pursuant 
to the provision of paragraph B.6 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and prior consultation on this matter between the Bank and 
the Borrower has been conducted. 
 
ARTICLE V— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Project Operational Manual has been adopted in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank pursuant to paragraph B.3 (a) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on January 16, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
 
4
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
 
Plaza San Agustín 
 
Carrera 7A, N�6-45, Piso 3 
 
Bogotá, D.C. 
 
Colombia 
 
Facsimile: (571) 350-9344 
 
Correspondence to be copied to: 
 
Departamento Administrativo de Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación 
 
(COLCIENCIAS) 
Carrera 7 B bis No. 132-28 
 
Edificio COLCIENCIAS 
 
Bogotá, DC. 
 
Colombia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(571) 6251788 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Bogotá, Republic of Colombia as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA  
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Oscar Iván Zuluaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gloria Grandolini 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
DEPARTAMENTO ADMINISTRATIVO DE 
CIENCIA, TECNOLOGIA E INNOVACION 
By /s/ Juan Francisco Miranda Miranda 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen COLCIENCIAS capacity to 
promote human capital for the knowledge economy, research and development and 
innovation; and (ii) raise awareness of science, technology and innovation in the 
Colombian society.  
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts:  
 
Part A:
Strengthening COLCIENCIAS’ Operational and Policy-making Capacity; 
Institutional Strengthening of the Science, Technology and Innovation National System
1. 
Strengthening of COLCIENCIAS’ operational and policy-making capacity 
 
including: 
 
(a)  
The enhancement of its organization, human resource capabilities and 
business processes, through, inter alia, the provision of staff training, 
technical assistance and Operating Costs. 
 
(b)  
The improvement of its strategic and sector planning and policy-making, 
through, inter alia, the creation of a specialized internal policy analysis 
unit, and the provision of goods, services, Operating Costs and technical 
assistance required therefor.  
 
(c)  
The improvement of its capacity to monitor, evaluate and manage the 
Project, through, inter alia, the provision of goods, services, training, 
Operating Costs and technical assistance required therefor. 
 
Part B:
Strengthening COLCIENCIAS Capacity to Promote Development of Human 
Capital for Science and Technology
1. 
Institutional strengthening of COLCIENCIAS’ capacity to promote the 
 
development of  human capacity for the knowledge economy through: 
 
(a) 
The financing of Investment Pilots to promote: (i) the labor market 
insertion of doctoral graduates by, inter alia, providing Stipends to 
public and private knowledge institutions and firms to hire doctoral 
graduates, including Colombian and non-Colombian researchers residing 
outside the Republic of Colombia; (ii) linkages between Colombian and  
non-Colombian scientists and the Colombian diaspora by, inter alia: (A) 
providing matching grants for collaborative Subprojects; and (B) 
7
training, forums and seminars; and (iii) provide the technical assistance 
to develop and implement plans and carry out evaluations  therefor.  
 
(b) 
(i) The financing of Investments to promote the development of scientific 
skills in basic and secondary education by, inter alia, providing  grants 
for research activities of students and their teachers; and (ii) the 
provision of technical assistance to, inter alia, establish and implement a 
monitoring and evaluation framework therefor. 
 
Part C: Strengthening COLCIENCIAS’ Capacity to Promote Research and Innovation; 
Investment for Research and Innovation.
1. 
Strengthening of COLCIENCIAS’ capacity to promote Research and 
Development (R&D) and innovation, through the financing, including matching 
grants, of Investment Pilots to promote and support, inter alia: (a) the 
development of innovation-management capabilities in firms; (b) R&D and 
innovation Subprojects in strategic knowledge areas; (c) Subprojects under 
revisions of existing COLCIENCIAS’ instruments for Recuperación contingente 
and Cofinanciación; and (d) the provision of technical assistance to develop and 
implement plans and carry out evaluations therefor. 
 
Part D:
Promoting Social Dissemination of Science, Technology and Innovation and 
Institutional Communication
1. 
Carrying out and financing of investments to:  
(a) 
Increase awareness and disseminate knowledge of science, technology 
and innovation among the Borrower’s public and private sectors, 
including provision of; (i) goods, including the rental, acquisition and 
operation of vehicles for mobile classrooms; (ii) training, forums and 
seminars, including training of mediators and facilitators; and (iii) 
technical assistance for, inter alia, the development and implementation 
of a monitoring and evaluation framework therefor; and 
 
(b) 
Increase COLCIENCIAS’ visibility in the Colombian society, including 
the preparation and carrying out of plans, seminars and mass media 
investments, and the provision of goods, services, Operating Costs and 
technical assistance therefor.  
 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times, during the implementation of the 
Project, COLCIENCIAS as its Departamento Administrativo responsible for the 
effective technical, fiduciary and supervisory activities related to the Project.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall, under the overall supervision of 
COLCIENCIAS’ Director, maintain until completion of the Project, the Project 
Leader with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, directly reporting to COLCIENCIAS’s  Director, and assigned with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers, consultants with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank and contracted pursuant to Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and such other resources and responsibilities as 
shall be required to coordinate the day-to-day management of the Project, 
including the: (a) effective implementation of procurement; (b) financial 
management; (c) audit; (d) monitoring and evaluation activities pursuant to the 
provisions of this Agreement and the Project Operational Manual;  and  (e) 
preparation and submission to the Bank, for its review and approval, of Project 
Annual Operating plans and related budgets. 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements  
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to COLCIENCIAS through budgetary transfers. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall make budgetary provisions in COLCIENCIAS’ 
annual budgets for calendar year 2011 and thereafter in amounts equivalent to at 
least seventy five per cent (75%) of expected Project expenditures for each such 
calendar year as provided for in the relevant Project Annual Operating Plan. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall: 
(a) 
adopt and thereafter apply and cause to be applied in the carrying out of 
the Project the Project Operational Manual under terms and conditions 
which shall been approved by the Bank; 
 
9
(b) 
carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance 
with the provisions of the: (i) Project Operational Manual; (ii) Annual 
Operating Plans; (iii) Environmental Management Framework; (iv) 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and (v) Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; 
 
(c) 
(i) prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comments, by not later 
than December 1 in each year, starting on December 1, 2010  and in 
accordance with guidelines detailed in the Project  Operational Manual, a 
consolidated Project Annual Operating Plan covering all Project 
activities, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including a description of 
Project activities and an implementation schedule for the upcoming year, 
a budget, and a financial plan; and (ii) thereafter carry out the Project or 
cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the Project Annual 
Operating Plan taking into account the Bank’s views, if any; 
 
(d) 
procure, and cause to be procured all goods, works and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(e) 
undertake that no physical or economic involuntary displacement of 
people (as interpreted in accordance with the Bank's Operational Policy 
4.12) shall take place as a consequence of Project implementation; and 
 
(f) 
by not later than December 31, 2012, establish COLCIENCIAS 
management information system, satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
4. 
The Borrower shall not amend, waive, suspend or fail to enforce the Project 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof without the prior approval of the 
Bank. In case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of 
the Project Operational Manual the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall finance Sub-projects under Parts 
B, C and D of the Project on a grant basis (the Grant) to Beneficiaries pursuant to 
the provisions established in the Convocatoria  and in separate grant agreements 
(the Grant Agreement) under terms and conditions approved by the Bank and set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual which shall include the following key 
provisions: (a) the identification of the Beneficiary; (b) the contract value 
assigned to each Beneficiary by COLCIENCIAS; (c) the duration of the activities 
to be financed by the Grant; (d) the terms of the counterpart funding to be 
provided by the Beneficiary to carry out its respective Subproject; (f) the scope 
and nature of the activities to be financed under Parts B, C, and D of the Project; 
(g) the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the Environmental 
Management Framework; and (h) the commitment of the Beneficiary and/or the 
10 
Financial Institution, if applicable, to take all necessary measures, as required by 
the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, to comply with its obligations as 
provided under Parts B, C, and D of the Project.  Each Grant Agreement shall be 
entered into between a Beneficiary and the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, 
and/or through a Financial Institution on behalf of the Borrower, through 
COLCIENCIAS. Said Financial Institution shall have been selected through a 
public competitive process (licitación pública) under terms and conditions and 
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
 
6. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph B.5 above, and in the event that 
the Grants are provided to Beneficiaries through a Financial Institution on behalf 
of  COLCIENCIAS, the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall: (a) comply 
and cause the Financial Institution to comply with the terms of the existing 
Financing Agreement and the relevant  terms and conditions set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual; or (b) if determined by the Borrower, through 
COLCIENCIAS,  enter into a new Financing Agreement with a new Financial 
Institution selected through a public competitive process (licitación pública)
under terms and conditions and bidding documents acceptable to the Bank,  as set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
7. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall, and shall cause, if applicable, the 
Financial Institution, to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each 
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.   
 
8. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Financing Agreement with the relevant Financial Institution 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  In this regard, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the relevant provisions of the Financing 
Agreement as applicable to Parts B, C and D of the Project. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  In this regard and without 
limitation to its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
COLCIENCIAS, shall, inter alia, ensure compliance with paragraph 9 (d) of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines by requiring the Financial Institution to: 
(a) 
take appropriate measures to prevent, inform on, respond to and 
investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and obstructive 
practices by its representatives in connection to the use of Loan 
proceeds; 
11 
(b) 
allow the Bank to inspect accounts, records and other documents relating 
to the Project upon the Bank’s request and in the company of the 
Financial Institution representatives; 
 
(c) 
allow the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and other 
documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank’s terms 
of reference for such purpose, with the collaboration of the Borrower 
through COLCIENCIAS; 
 
(d) 
accept the Bank’s right to apply any of the sanctions foreseen in Section 
11 of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines if at any time the Bank determines 
that any of the Financial Institution representatives have engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of Bank Loan proceeds; and 
 
(e) 
restitute to the Borrower any amount of the Loan with respect to which 
fraud and corruption has occurred. 
 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall:  
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental Management Framework and Indigenous Peoples 
Planning Framework, as the case may be; and  
 
(b) 
not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the 
provisions of the Environmental Management Framework and  
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework  without the prior agreement of 
the Bank.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall monitor and evaluate the progress 
of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed 
with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
12 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through COLCIENCIAS, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall have the Project Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Project Financial Statements shall cover 
the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements 
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after 
the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provision. Without limitation to its reporting obligations under this 
agreement, the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, shall: (a) supply the SEPA 
with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within forty (45) 
days after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the 
Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the 
actual Project implementation needs and progress and shall supply SEPA with 
13 
the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately 
thereafter.  
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  Annex A to this Schedule 2 specifies the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Commercial Practices acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the Procurement Plan 
and the Project Operational Manual 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Fixed-Budget Selection 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(f) Individual Consultants selected pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
5.2., 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines  
14 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive Taxes)
(1) Grants under Sub-
 
projects under Part B 
 
(except Part B 
 
1.(b)(i)), C and D of 
 
the Project 
 
9,026,250 
 
 
100% 
(2) Grants under Sub-
 
projects under Part B 
 
1.(b)(i) of the Project  
 
2,080,650 
100% 
(3) Stipends under Part 
 
B.1(a)(i)  of the 
 
Project 
 
2,080,650 
100% 
(4) Goods, services, 
 
training. Operating 
 
Costs and consultants’ 
 
services under Parts A, 
 
B, C 1(d) and D of the 
 
Project 
 
11,812,450 
100% 
15 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive Taxes)
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
25,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after December 1, 2009 for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), 
(3) and (4).  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
16 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Additional Provisions Relating to  
Particular Methods of Procurement 
 
Section I. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following 
additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall use, or cause to 
be used, standard bidding documents, as approved by the Bank for 
bidding under the Project and incorporated in the Project Operational 
Manual (the “Standard Bidding Documents”). Any change or departure 
from the Standard Bidding Document approved by the Bank shall require 
its prior approval. 
 
(b) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or citizens of the 
Borrower’s territory, will be treated equally and, particularly, no 
preference will be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for bid 
evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their bids by 
hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall 
not be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's 
registration in any public registry, chamber of commerce or similar 
entity, whether in the Borrower’s territory or elsewhere, or to appoint a 
representative domiciled in Borrower’s territory, unless and until such 
bidder is awarded the corresponding contract. 
 
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and 
place for the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding 
documents. Bid opening shall coincide with, or take place promptly after, 
the final date and time of the period for bid submission stipulated in the 
bidding documents. 
 
(d) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial 
standards of capability and whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made exclusively on 
the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
17 
stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied 
for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely 
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall 
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, 
including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
(e) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the 
persons officially charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating 
the bids while they are performing their official duties, without the 
corresponding bidder’s written authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not 
be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of 
contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of 
the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which confidentiality 
has been specifically requested by the bidder in question. 
18 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
1. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February 
15, 2028.  
 
19 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section I of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means either an individual or a legal entity such as a private sector 
entity, a university, and a research center, implementing a Sub-project. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Cofinanciación” means a cofinancing mechanism to be used by the Borrower, 
through COLCIENCIAS and/or the Financial Institution for the provision of a 
Grant to a Beneficiary, with the collaboration of public and private entities as 
providers of funds. 
 
5. 
“COLCIENCIAS Legislation” means Law 1286 of 2009. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
7. 
“Convocatoria” means a call for proposal issued and widely disseminated by the 
Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, pursuant to terms satisfactory to the Bank, 
inviting, inter alia, eligible individuals, institutions or firms, to submit Subproject 
proposals, for the purposes of competitively selecting Beneficiaries under Parts 
B, C and D of the Project. 
 
8. 
“Departamento Administrativo de Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación” and the 
acronym COLCIENCIAS”, mean the Borrower’s national public science, 
technology and innovation Departamento Administrativo, originally established 
as the Instituto Colombiano para el Desarrollo de la Ciencia y la Tecnología 
“Francisco José de Caldas” by Decree No. 2869 dated November 20, 1968, and 
transformed into a Departamento Administrativo as part of the Borrower’s 
Executive Branch reporting directly to the President, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Law 1286 dated January 23, 2009, and any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Framework adopted by the 
Borrower through COLCIENCIAS on April 9, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 
D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Framework may be 
amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
20 
10. 
“Financing Agreement” means the Contrato de Fiducia Mercantil No. 623 
entered into between the Borrower, through  COLCIENCIAS, with Sociedad 
Fiduciaria de Bogotá S.A. dated December 4, 2009, or any other agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, and a Financial 
Institution pursuant to paragraph B.6. of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Financial Institution” means the Sociedad Fiduciaria Bogotá S.A. or any other 
financial institution, satisfactory to the Bank, which entered into a Financing 
Agreement pursuant to paragraph B.6 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Francisco José de Caldas Fund” means the Fondo Nacional de Financiamiento 
Para la Ciencia, la Tecnología y la Innovación, Fondo José de Caldas 
established by Article 22 of the Borrower’s Law 1286 dated January 23, 2009, as 
an autonomous fund (patrimonio autónomo) to be administered pursuant to a 
trust fund agreement (contrato de fiducia mercantil), and any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
14. 
“Grant” means the financing out of the proceeds of the Loan of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, services, including consultants services, and Operating 
Costs under a Sub-project. 
 
15. 
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph B.5 of Section 
I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
through COLCIENCIAS, and/or through a Financial Institution acceptable to the 
Bank, on behalf of the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, and a Beneficiary, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of financing a 
Sub-project. 
 
16. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the Framework adopted by the 
Borrower through the COLCIENCIAS on April 15, 2010, and referred to in 
paragraph D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Framework 
may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
17. 
“Investment” means recurrent activities under Parts B and D of the Project to 
promote science, technology and innovation to be implemented either directly by 
the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, or by a Beneficiary under the Programa 
Ondas.  
 
21 
18. 
“Investment Pilot” means new activities under Parts B and C of the Project to 
promote science, technology and innovation to be implemented either directly by 
the Borrower through COLCIENCIAS or by a Beneficiary under a Sub-project.  
 
19. 
“Operating Costs”  means reasonable expenditures directly related to the Project, 
incurred by the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS, (which expenditures would 
not have been incurred absent the Project), including the costs of consumable 
materials and supplies, communications and translations, mass media and 
printing services, rental of vehicles, warehouse space, and facilities, operation 
and maintenance, charges for the opening and operation of bank accounts 
required for the Project, postage and handling, and travel, lodging and per diems,
but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 21, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
22. 
“Program” means the program designed to enhance the Borrower’s ability to 
generate,  identify, disseminate, apply and integrate knowledge among its 
citizens to foster economic growth and diminish inequities, and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 22, 2010, from the Director of 
COLCIENCIAS on behalf of the Borrower to the Bank. 
 
23. 
“Programa Ondas” means the Borrower’s program to finance, through 
COLCIENCIAS, research activities undertaken by basic and secondary education 
students and their teachers. 
 
24. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower, 
through COLCIENCIAS,  pursuant to paragraph B.3 (a) of Section 1 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement for purposes of carrying out the Project,  as such manual may 
be amended with the prior approval of the Bank.  
 
25. 
“Recuperación contingente” means a contractual modality to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS and/or the Financial Institution 
and a Beneficiary pursuant to the financial terms detailed in Article 8(d) of the 
Borrower’s Decree Law No. 591, dated February 26, 1991, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
22 
26. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s system for the execution of procurement processes 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
27. 
“Stipends” means remuneration for the temporary employment (or services 
rendered) provided to Beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Operational Manual.  
 
28. 
“Sub-project” means an Investment or an Investment Pilot to be implemented by 
a Beneficiary selected through competitive processes with the financial 
assistance of the Borrower, through COLCIENCIAS. 
 
29. 
“Training” means expenditures (other than for consultant’s services incurred by 
the Borrower) in respect of Category 4 to finance: (a) reasonable per diem cost, 
travel, room and board expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in 
connection with their training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) 
course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d) training material preparation, 
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration 
by another financier that the Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project 
Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such 
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
23 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) 
and all other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, 
in the event that the Borrower or the individual or entity has been 
debarred by another financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the 
use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or 
an individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such 
Borrower, individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; 
(ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for 
example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the 
preparation or implementation of the project or any other project 
financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged 
in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with 
which the Bank has entered into an agreement for the mutual 
24 
enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person or entity 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any 
project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices 
in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
