 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7969-PE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Justice Services Improvement Project II) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 14, 2010  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 14, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF PERU 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”).  
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is 
the Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s Director of Public 
Indebtedness or any person whom any of them shall designate in writing.  
 
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
-2- 
 
 
2.05. The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. (a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower, through the PCU, in coordination with the Participating 
Institutions, shall carry out the Project, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Subsidiary Agreement, and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the AMAG’s Organic Law, the CNM’s Organic Law, the AGO’s Organic 
Law, the MINJUS’ Organic Law and/or the Judiciary’s Organic Law or 
any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
 
-3- 
 
repealed or waived or not enforced in such manner so as to affect 
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the 
Borrower or any of the Participating Institutions to carry out any of their 
obligations under this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action concerning the Participating Institutions that would materially 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Participating 
Institutions to carry out any of their respective obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through 
MEF, and the Participating Institutions. 
 
5.02. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 18, 2012.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance, provided 
that the Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, 
represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement 
which are considered of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing 
by such Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation 
by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is considered to be 
administrative and non-financial in nature.   
 
 
-4- 
 
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
  
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile: (511) 626 9921 
 
 
6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Lima, Perú, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ismael Benavides Ferreyros 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Carlos Felipe Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality of service delivery by the 
Participating Institutions and to enhance access to justice with a focus on citizens’ need 
for justice services. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Improved Justice Services Delivery  
 
1.  
Strengthening of the strategic planning and managerial capabilities of the 
Participating Institutions, through, inter alia:  
 
(a) 
the application of case management procedures and the improvement of 
planning and budget management capacity; and 
 
(b)  
the design and implementation of mechanisms for the coordination of 
administrative and jurisdictional functions, and for monitoring and 
performance-based management. 
 
2.  
Strengthening of the operational capabilities of Participating Institutions, through, 
inter alia:  
 
(a) 
(i) the design and implementation of a case filing system in courts of the 
Judiciary; (ii) the design and launching of technological platforms and 
statistical plans for case management for the Judiciary and AGO; and (iii) 
the development and installation of an electronic consultation system of 
case files (“information kiosks”) for the Judiciary and AGO, including the 
carrying out of minor civil works; 
 
(b) 
(i) the design and implementation of institutional mechanisms to promote 
coordination within, and among Participating Institutions; (ii) the 
development and installation of software for the Judiciary’s web portal; 
(iii) the development and installation of information systems within the 
AGO; and (iv) the development and implementation of a notification 
system for the Judiciary; and 
 
(c) 
the development and implementation of service delivery mechanisms to 
support the reduction of processing time and the improvement of 
efficiency in attention of users by the Judiciary and AGO, including the 
design of regulations and a pilot plan for introducing oral proceedings in 
labor and civil cases by the Judiciary. 
 
 
-6- 
 
3. 
Strengthening of the capacity of Participating Institutions to implement the new 
CPC, in accordance with the CPC Implementation Strategy, through, inter alia:  
 
(a) 
the development of case and administrative management systems aimed at 
coordinating information managed by the Participating Institutions, 
including for the management of caseload data within and among 
Participating Institutions pursuant to the provisions of the CPC;  
 
(b) 
the design and implementation of training activities on the CPC procedural 
reforms, for personnel of the Participating Institutions; 
  
(c) 
the carrying out of minor works for the refurbishment, including 
equipping, of courtrooms, AGO offices and MINJUS’ public defense 
offices, required for the implementation of oral proceedings; 
 
(d) 
the development and implementation of a joint communications strategy 
for the Participating Institutions, in coordination with the Commission for 
Implementation of the CPC; and 
 
(e) 
the carrying out of minor civil works for the refurbishment of the legal 
medical institute within the AGO to establish a forensic laboratory. 
 
Part B: Improved Human Resources Management Capacity 
 
1. 
Strengthening of managerial capabilities of the Participating Institutions, through, 
inter alia: 
 
(a) 
the design and implementation of: (i) professional development plans for 
personnel of the Judiciary; and (ii) human resources planning and 
management models for the Participating Institutions; 
 
(b) 
the support of the institutional capabilities of CNM to improve its human 
resources processes for, inter alia: (i) the development and validation of 
job profiles; (ii) the development and adoption of recruitment processes 
and instruments, including registries and communication strategies; (iii) 
the design and implementation of a system to evaluate the judges’ and 
prosecutors’ performance in accordance with the relevant job profile; (iv) 
the identification of post-selection training programs, in coordination with 
AMAG; and (v) the carrying out of minor civil works to refurbish CNM 
central office to install new technological equipment; and 
 
(c) 
the support of the managerial capacities of CNM for, inter alia: (i) the 
development of human resources administrative rules and procedures for 
the CNM; and (ii) the development and installation of information systems 
 
-7- 
 
for the Judiciary and AGO to improve access to legal databases of their 
personnel. 
 
2.  
Support of the development and implementation of integrated judicial training 
programs in AMAG, through, inter alia, the development of training courses and 
materials, including for:  
 
(a)  
the development of a specialized program for those interested in joining 
the Judiciary; 
 
(b)  
the development of planning and learning tools adapted to the needs of the 
personnel of the Judiciary, MINJUS’ public defense, and AGO;  
 
(c)  
the design of an evaluation system for the training programs; and  
 
(d)  
the creation of electronic libraries, virtual information centers, and 
carrying out of minor civil works for the installation of conference 
facilities, including videoconferencing. 
 
Part C: Enhanced Transparency and Access to Justice 
 
1. 
Strengthening of the transparency and anticorruption efforts of the Participating 
Institutions, through, inter alia: 
 
(a)  the support of the disciplinary capacity of the Judiciary, including: (i) the 
provision of anticorruption training for personnel of the Judiciary; (ii) the 
establishment 
of 
institutional 
coordination 
mechanisms 
among 
administrative units in the justice sector; and (iii) the development of 
mechanisms to oversee the functioning of judicial institutions, through 
joint activities with the Peruvian civil society; and 
 
(b) 
the support of OCMA, including: (i) the development and implementation 
of managerial tools to improve the Judiciary’s efficiency and 
transparency; and (ii) the development and implementation of a 
communication strategy. 
 
2. 
Promoting an equitable delivery of justice services for the poor, through, inter 
alia:  
 
(a) 
(i) the support for the creation of new ALEGRAs, including the carrying 
out of minor civil works and the acquisition of equipment; and (ii) the 
development and implementation of training programs for legal aid 
providers and personnel of ALEGRAs; 
  
 
-8- 
 
(b) 
the support of managerial capabilities of MINJUS, including the design 
and implementation of user-centered service delivery strategies and 
mechanisms; and 
 
(c) 
  the support of the public legal education program, including the 
dissemination of information and consultation with community leaders, 
local authorities, and representatives of grassroots organizations. 
 
Part D: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
1. 
Strengthening of the PCU, including improving its procurement, financial 
management and monitoring and evaluation capabilities. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to the PCU to carry out the audits referred to in 
Section II.B.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3.  
Strengthening of the management, monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the 
Participating Institutions for the carrying out of Project activities.  
 
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A.  
Institutional Arrangements  
1.  
Steering Committee  
 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the Participating Institutions, shall maintain, at all 
times, until the completion of the Project, a steering committee (CDP) 
with membership, structure, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.  
 
(b) 
The CDP shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) providing overall policy 
and strategic guidance to ensure timely Project implementation; (ii) 
ensuring 
appropriate 
inter-institutional 
coordination 
among 
the 
Participating Institutions, and promoting the resolution of any issues 
which may affect Project implementation; and (iii) carrying out general 
oversight and quality assurance controls to ensure efficient Project 
implementation pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
2. 
Project Coordination Unit 
 
 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the Judiciary, shall maintain, at all times until the 
completion of the Project, the Project coordination unit (PCU), within the 
Judiciary, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, as 
set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the Judiciary, shall take all necessary measures, to 
timely allocate part of the proceeds of the Loan to maintain the PCU 
staffed, at all times throughout Project implementation, by qualified and 
experienced technical and administrative staff in adequate numbers, with 
the core functions required for the effective implementation of the Project 
(including a Project coordinator, a procurement specialist, an accountant, 
and a disbursement specialist), all with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
-10- 
 
B. 
Implementation Actions 
 
1. 
Project Operational Manual 
 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the PCU and the Participating Institutions, shall 
carry out, and/or cause to be carried out the Project, in accordance with the 
provisions of a manual satisfactory to the Bank, the Operational Manual, 
which shall include, inter alia, the following provisions: (i) guidelines for 
the preparation of AOP; (ii) detailed terms of reference, procedures and 
timetable for the establishment and maintenance of financial management, 
accounting and auditing systems under the Project; (iii) procedures, 
requirements and standard bidding documents for the procurement of 
minor works, goods and consultants’ services financed under the Project 
by the PCU; (iv) institutional and administrative mechanisms established 
to ensure inter-institutional coordination, including the terms of reference 
and functions and responsibilities of the Participating Institutions, CDP, 
the PCU, and the coordination staff of the Participating Institutions; (v) 
terms of reference and procedures for the monitoring and evaluation of 
Project implementation; (vi) the format of: (A) the unaudited interim 
financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of this Schedule, and (B) the 
Financial Statements; (vii) the Project indicators; and (viii) the 
environmental guidelines for the Project, including procedures to prevent, 
mitigate, and manage any potential environmental negative impact of 
minor civil works carried out under the Project. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower, through the PCU and the Participating Institutions, shall not 
abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
 
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail.  
 
2.  
Annual Operating Plan 
 
 
 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through the PCU, 
shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, in accordance with guidelines detailed in the Operational Manual, 
and, starting on February 28, 2011 and thereafter by not later than 
November 30 of each year of Project implementation, submit to the Bank 
a consolidated annual operating plan (AOP) satisfactory to the Bank, 
which plan shall include, inter alia: (i) a description of Project activities to 
be carried out during the year following the date of presentation of each 
such plan (based on the list of prioritized activities under each 
 
-11- 
 
Participating Institution’s responsibility for the relevant year, prepared by 
each said Participating Institution); (ii) a timetable for the implementation 
of said activities; and (iii) a financial plan, including a budget plan 
(detailing the amount of counterpart funds to be provided in the relevant 
year); and 
 
(b) 
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion and 
achievement of said AOP, based on the views of the Bank on said plan. 
 
C. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through MEF, 
shall enter into an agreement with all Participating Institutions (the 
Subsidiary Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, and in accordance with those set forth in the Operational Manual, 
which shall include, inter alia: (a) the obligation of the PCU to comply 
with its obligations under this agreement; and (b) the obligation of each of 
the Participating Institutions to: (i) prepare and submit to the PCU, for 
purposes of the preparation of the relevant AOP, a list of prioritized 
activities, under its responsibility for the relevant year; (ii) implement the 
Project activities under its responsibility in accordance with the AOP for 
the relevant year, and as set forth in the Operational Manual; (iii) provide 
the corresponding counterpart funds for the financing of the Project 
activities under its responsibility; and (iv) take or permit to be taken all 
actions to enable the Borrower, through MEF and the PCU, to comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MEF and the PCU, shall exercise its rights and 
comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to 
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower, through the Participating Institutions and the PCU, shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines. 
 
 
-12- 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five calendar days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through 
the PCU, shall, no later than April 30, 2013, exchange views with the Bank (the 
mid-term review) on the execution of the Project, and the pertinent Project 
Reports covering the last two calendar semesters preceding the date of said mid-
term review. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through the PCU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project 
Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall, not later than six months after the 
Effective Date, hire an independent auditor, with experience and qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank, and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for 
purposes of carrying out the independent audits referred to in Section 5.09 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
  
 
-13- 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
-14- 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Special Provisions 
 
1. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in 
this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern 
the procurement of goods, and works with National Competitive Bidding 
procedures: 
 
(a) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition 
of participation in the selection process. 
 
(b) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding 
documents or used for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
(c) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in 
the invitation to bid.  
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National Competitive 
Bidding without restriction and shall not be subject to any unjustified 
requirement which will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited 
to, the requirement to authenticate their bidding documents or any 
documentation related to such bidding documents with either Peruvian 
Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as 
a prerequisite of bidding. 
 
 
-15- 
 
(e) 
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents and standard 
evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in 
this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern 
all employment of consultants: 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate any 
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with 
either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any 
Peruvian authorities as a condition of participation in said selection 
process. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall use standard requests for proposals and standard 
evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to 
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association that are different from 
those required for Peruvian consultants. 
(e) 
No consultant hired for the Project, at the time he or she is carrying out his 
or her contractual obligations as consultant, may hold civil service office 
or any other position in any agency of the Borrower, nor shall such 
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon 
the conclusion of his or her consulting services. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
-16- 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 (inclusive of Taxes)  
(1) 
Minor works 
 
3,472,500 
100% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
 
5,970,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
services  
 
 
6,979,500 
 
100% 
(4) 
Training 
 
2,135,000 
100% 
 
(5) 
Operating Costs 
 
1,246,000 
100% 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
 
197,000 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
20,000,000 
 
 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office equipment, 
communication costs, office administration costs, travel, and supervision 
costs of locally contracted employees; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) for: (i) travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with the 
carrying out of training activities; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility 
rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction 
and distribution expenses. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
  
(b)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 
2010, for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
-17- 
 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-18- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
  
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
November15, 2021 
25 % 
May15, 2022 
17% 
November15, 2022 
19% 
May 15, 2023 
11% 
November15, 2023 
28% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
-19- 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals 
made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
 
 
-20- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“AGO” means Ministerio Público-Fiscalía de la Nación, the Borrower’s Attorney 
General’s Office established and operating pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 
X of the Borrower’s Constitution and AGO’s Organic Law (as hereinafter 
defined), or any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
“AGO’s Organic Law” means Ley Orgánica del Ministerio Público, the 
Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 052 dated March 16, 1981, duly published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated March 18, 1981, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“ALEGRA” means Asistencia Legal Gratuita, the Borrower’s legal aid centers 
administered by MINJUS. 
4. 
“AMAG” means Academia de la Magistratura, the Borrower’s judicial and 
prosecutorial academy established and operating pursuant to the provisions of 
Article 151 of the Borrower’s Constitution and AMAG’s Organic Law (as 
hereinafter defined), or any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the 
Bank. 
5. 
AMAG’s Organic Law” means Ley Orgánica de la Academia de la Magistratura, 
the Borrower’s Law No. 26335 dated July 20, 1994, duly published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette dated July 21, 1994, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
6. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
7. 
“AOP” means any of the annual operating plans referred to in Section I.B.2 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
8. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
9. 
“CDP” means Comité Directivo del Proyecto, the steering committee referred to 
in Section I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established under the First 
Project, with the incorporation of AGO in accordance with the CDP’s resolution 
(Acta de Sesión XII) dated September 14, 2009, which mandate has been extended 
throughout the implementation of this Project by CDP’s resolution (Acta de 
Sesión XIV) dated March 11, 2010.  
  
 
-21- 
 
10. 
“CNM” means Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura, the Borrower’s judicial 
council established and operating pursuant to the provisions of Article 150 of the 
Constitution and the provisions of CNM’s Organic Law (as hereinafter defined), 
or any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.  
 
11. 
“CNM’s Organic Law” means Ley Orgánica del Consejo Nacional de la 
Magistratura, the Borrower’s Law No. 26397 dated November 25, 1994, duly 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated December 7, 1994, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Commission for the Implementation of the CPC” means Comisión Especial de 
Implementación del Código Procesal Penal, the Borrower’s Special Commission 
for the Implementation of the CPC, established by the Borrower’s Legislative 
Decree No. 958, dated July 28, 2004, duly published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette on July 29, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
  
13. 
“Constitution” means Constitución Política del Perú, the Borrower’s Constitution 
dated October 31, 1993, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
15. 
“CPC” means Código Procesal Penal, the Borrower’s Criminal Procedure Code, 
enacted by the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 957, dated July 28, 2004, duly 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 29, 2004, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“CPC Implementation Strategy” means, jointly: (a) the Borrower’s working plan 
for the implementation of the CPC (Plan de Trabajo de la Comisión Especial de 
Implementación del Código Procesal Penal), dated June 2007, as this document 
may be amended from time to time by the Commission for the Implementation of 
the CPC; and (b) the Borrower’s timetable for the implementation of the CPC 
(Calendario Oficial de Aplicación Progresiva del Código Procesal Penal), 
established in the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 958, dated July 28, 2004, 
duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 29, 2004, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement. 
  
17. 
“First Project” means the Justice Services Improvement Project financed in part 
with the proceeds of the loan No.7219-PE pursuant to the provisions set forth in 
the loan agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, dated 
November 30, 2004. 
 
18. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
-22- 
 
  
19. 
“Judiciary” means Poder Judicial, the Borrower’s judicial branch responsible for 
administering and delivering judicial services in the Borrower’s territory, pursuant 
to the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Constitution, and the provisions of the 
Judiciary’s Organic Law (as hereinafter defined).  
 
20. 
“Judiciary’s Organic Law” means Texto Unico Ordenado de la Ley Orgánica del 
Poder Judicial, the Borrower’s Supreme Decree Nº 017-93-JUS dated May 28, 
1993  published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 2, 1993, setting forth 
the organization, roles and responsibilities of the Judiciary, as amended to the date 
of this Agreement. 
 
21. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance, and any successor or successors thereto. 
 
22. 
“MINJUS” means Ministerio de Justicia, the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, or 
any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
23. 
“MINJUS’ Organic Law” means Ley Orgánica del Sector Justicia, the 
Borrower’s Law Decree (Decreto Ley)  Nº 25993 dated December 7, 1992, duly 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 24, 1992, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement. 
 
24. 
“OCMA” means Oficina de Control de la Magistratura, the anti-corruption office 
of the Judiciary, with functions and responsibilities set forth in the OCMA 
regulations (Reglamento de Organización y Funciones de la Oficina de Control 
de la Magistratura del Poder Judicial), approved by the Judiciary’s 
administrative resolution No. 129-2009-CE-PJ, as said regulations have been 
amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated June 2010, acceptable 
to the Bank, referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Participating Institution” means any of the following institutions within the 
Borrower’s judicial sector: AMAG, CNM, the Judiciary, MINJUS, and AGO, 
approved by the Bank for participation under the Project. 
 
27. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit, within the Judiciary, referred to in 
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established under the First Project, 
with functions and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual, or any 
successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
-23- 
 
  
29. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 20, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
30. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.C.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  
These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  
sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection with 
the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has entered 
into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
-24- 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed contract 
upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier 
with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of any of its 
political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and agencies that are 
not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose of 
making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of 
sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining 
the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, and explaining how 
cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and 
other stakeholders.” 
 
 
