CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7897-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Andhra Pradesh Water Sector Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 14, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 14, 2010, between INDIA (“Borrower”)  
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred fifty million six 
hundred thousand Dollars ($450,600,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by Andhra Pradesh in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Andhra Pradesh Water Resources Regulatory Commission Act 
(No.15 of 2009), has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Andhra 
Pradesh to implement the Project or achieve the objectives thereof. 
3
(b) 
The Andhra Pradesh Farmers Management of Irrigation Systems Act 
(No.11 of 1997), has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Andhra 
Pradesh to implement the Project or achieve the objectives thereof. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in paragraph (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs 
and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — TERMINATION 
5.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01 
The Recipient’s Representative is any of the following: Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Secretary 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India 
North Block  
New Delhi 110001, India 
 
Facsimile: 
 
91-11-2309 2039 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Facsimile: 
 
1-202-477-6391 
4
AGREED at Hyderabad, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ Anup K. Pujari 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Giovanna Prennushi 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve irrigation service delivery on a 
sustainable basis so as to increase productivity of irrigated agriculture in the Nagarjuna 
Sagar Scheme; and (b) to strengthen Andhra Pradesh’s institutional capacity for multi-
sectoral planning, development, and management of its water resources. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part A: Improving Irrigation Service Delivery in the Nagarjuna Sagar Scheme 
This component of the Project consists of the following activities: (a) participatory 
rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation systems; (b) dam safety works;  
(c) fostering and capacity building of water user organizations at all levels of the 
scheme; (d) improving water management practices; and (e) implementing any 
social and environmental management plan prepared in line with the Social and 
Environmental Management Framework. 
 
Part B:  Irrigated Agriculture Intensification and Diversification 
 
This component supports various activities in the Nagarjuna Sagar Scheme, 
involving: (a) field crops; (b) horticultural crops; (c) livestock production;  
(d) fisheries; (e) on-farm adaptive research; and (f) market-led extension. 
 
Part C: Water Sector Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building  
 
This component supports the following activities: (a) establishment, fostering, and 
operationalization of the Andhra Pradesh Water Resources Regulatory 
Commission; (b) restructuring and capacity building of the Andhra Pradesh 
Irrigation and Command Area Development Department; (c) strengthening and 
capacity building of the Andhra Pradesh Water and Land Management Training 
Institute; (d) establishment of an integrated computerized information system;  
(e) piloting user centered aquifer level ground water management, and  
(f) piloting conjunctive use of surface and ground water in the Nagarjuna Sagar 
Scheme.  
 
Part D:  Project Management  
 
This supports the following activities: (a) operation of a state level project 
preparation and management unit; (b) implementation of Project monitoring and 
evaluation responsibilities; and (c) implementation of an information, education, 
and communication program. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to Andhra Pradesh, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the GAAP. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall 
cause Andhra Pradesh to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Key 
Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) 
months, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) weeks after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system for the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause Andhra Pradesh to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  
7
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Financial 
Year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding subject to the following 
additional procedures: 
 
(a) 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
procurement method may be used. 
(b) 
Standard bidding documents and procedures approved by the Bank shall 
be used. 
(c) 
The provisions of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in 
the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
8
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions agreed   upon 
from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
(d)  Force Account 
(e)  Community Participation 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Single-source Selection 
(f)  
Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by  
the Bank. 
 
9
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, 
consultants’ services, 
training and operating costs 
under the Project 
 
449,473,500 
48% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,126,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
450,600,000 
 
For the purposes of this Section IV, the terms: 
 
(a)  
“training” means non-consultant expenditures incurred in connection 
with the provision of training, including training institution fees, logistics, materials, and 
the reasonable cost of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees; and  
 
(b)  
“operating costs” means the incremental costs of maintenance and 
operation of the PPMU, including office expenses, vehicles, salaries and allowances of 
incremental PPMU staff and other staff working for the Project, and travel costs incurred 
for the purposes of carrying out the Project. 
10 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2009, 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2016. 
 
11 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2015 
 
through May 15, 2040 
 
2%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
12 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
13 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Andhra Pradesh Water Resources Regulatory Commission” means a statutory 
commission to be established by the Government of Andhra Pradesh pursuant to 
the Andhra Pradesh Water Resources Regulatory Commission Act (No.15 of 
2009). 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Dam Safety Plan” means Andhra Pradesh’s plan dated December 26, 2007 for 
carrying out rehabilitation and modernization of existing dams under the Project 
(as described in the Loan Agreement) to be developed based on a dam safety 
assessment and reviewed and cleared by an independent dam safety review panel 
constituted by the Government of Andhra Pradesh. 
 
6. 
“Financial Management Manual” means Andhra Pradesh’s manual dated  
March 8, 2010, as amended from to time with the Bank’s prior consent, 
containing details of administrative, accounting and financial procedures, and 
procurement and disbursement arrangements, which the Borrower and the Bank 
have agreed are necessary for implementing the Project. 
 
7. 
“Financial Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower which year begins on 
April 1 and ends on March 31 of each year. 
 
8. 
“Governance and Accountability Action Plan” or “GAAP” means the 
Governance and Accountability Action Plan set forth as volume VI of the Project 
Implementation Plan (as defined hereinafter), which identifies key governance 
issues and sets forth mitigation measures to address said issues in respect of the 
carrying out of Project activities, as said Plan may be amended from time to time 
with the concurrence of the Bank. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
14 
 
10. 
“Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives contained in the 
Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined). 
 
11. 
“Nagarjuna Sagar Scheme” means the Government of Andhra Pradesh’s existing 
multipurpose water project. 
 
12. 
“Pest Management Strategy” means Andhra Pradesh’s strategy dated  
September 5, 2008 to handle any environmental impacts arising from increased 
use of pesticides in carrying out agricultural rehabilitation activities under the 
Project (as described in the Loan Agreement), as may be amended from time to 
time with the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 12, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means Andhra Pradesh’s plan for carrying out the 
Project dated January 12, 2010, as amended from time to time with the Bank’s 
prior consent, containing, among other things, details about project 
implementation activities, schedules and deadlines, training programs, 
procurement issues and the Key Performance Indicators. 
 
16. 
“Project Preparation and Management Unit”, or “PPMU” means the unit 
constituted by the Government of Andhra Pradesh in its Irrigation and Command 
Area Department pursuant to Section 1.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement for the purpose of carrying out the Project. 
 
17. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee constituted by the 
Government of Andhra Pradesh pursuant to Section 1.A.3 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement to ensure successful implementation of the Project. 
 
18. 
“Resettlement and Rehabilitation Entitlement Framework” means Andhra 
Pradesh’s framework dated September 5, 2008 to handle any potential 
resettlement and rehabilitation of Project affected persons, as may be amended 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
19. 
“Social and Environmental Management Framework” means Andhra Pradesh’s 
framework dated September 5, 2008 developed pursuant to integrated social and 
environmental assessment, as amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
15 
 
consent, which sets out measures and procedures for, among other things: (a) 
social and environmental screening and field verification of packages; (b) 
consultations and communications with the general public, stakeholders, and 
Project affected people; (c) preparation of social management plans including 
resettlement and tribal development components, wherever required; (d) 
preparation of individual environmental management plans, including pest 
management; (e) preparation of dam safety plans; (f) institutional strengthening 
activities in relation to the social and environmental aspects of the Project; and 
(g) monitoring of social and environmental parameters at different stages of 
preparation and implementation. 
 
20. 
“Safeguards Framework” means, collectively, the Cultural Property Management 
Strategy, the Dam Safety Plan, the Pest Management Strategy, Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation Entitlement Framework and the Tribal Development Strategy (as 
hereinafter defined). 
 
21. 
“Tribal Development Strategy” means Andhra Pradesh’s strategy dated 
September 5, 2008 to address issues related to tribal and vulnerable population 
under the Project, as may be amended from time to time by agreement between 
the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
16 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
