 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7936-AM 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
(Second Additional Financing for Lifeline Roads Improvement Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 23, 2010 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7936-AM 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 23, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”)  for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoTC in accordance 
with the provisions of the amended Implementation Agreement, Operational 
Manual and the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
- 3 - 
 
 
1 Melik-Adamyan Street 
Yerevan 0010 
Republic of Armenia  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
+374-10-524282 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
 
 
By /s/ Tigran Davtyan  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to upgrade selected sections of the lifeline road 
network and create temporary employment in road construction. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following additional parts to the Original Project: 
 
Part A: Rehabilitation of selected sections of lifeline roads  
 
Provision of works, goods, consultants’ services, including Project audit and 
Incremental Operating Costs, for the rehabilitation of approximately 190 km of selected 
sections of the lifeline roads. 
 
Part B: Technical Assistance 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to the PIU and ARD, to develop 
new road geometric standards, feasibility studies and designs of future investments and 
purchase of road data collection equipment. 
 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoTC, shall maintain the PIU and ARD until completion 
of the Project, with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and assign to them responsibility for overall management of Project 
implementation and coordination, including: 
 
(a) 
preparation of disbursement applications under the Loan; 
 
(b) 
management of the Designated Account and Project Account; 
 
(c) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 
for the audit thereof; 
 
(d) 
preparation of bidding documents and participation in the administration 
of bidding procedures and of contracts under the Project; 
 
(e) 
preparation of Project Reports and submission thereof to the Borrower 
and the Bank in accordance with Section II.A of this Schedule; and 
 
(f) 
management and supervision of all Project activities. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MoTC, shall: (a) maintain the Implementation Agreement 
in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Implementation Agreement without obtaining the prior approval of the 
Bank; and (b) maintain the Operational Manual in form and content satisfactory 
to the Bank, shall duly perform all its obligations under the Operational Manual 
and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual without 
obtaining the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available 
to the road sector for maintenance of Interstate and Republican roads in the 
Borrower’s annual budget. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of standards recommended by the European 
Committee for Standardization on design and construction of roads and highways 
(in addition to the national standards) in the design and construction of road 
works under the Project. 
- 6 - 
 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available 
for the Project in the Borrower’s annual budget for the duration of the Project. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the ratification of this 
Agreement by the Borrower’s Parliament, open a Project Account in a bank or a 
financial institution acceptable to the Bank and deposit therein twenty percent 
(20%) of the Borrower’s contribution to the Project. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MoTC, shall: 
(a) apply for the activities under Part A of the Project the criteria, policies, 
procedures and arrangements set out in the EMF; and (b) not amend or waive, or 
permit to be amended or waived the EMF, or any provision thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Bank, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project activities will neither support nor 
result in the involuntary taking of land, involuntary resettlement or involuntary 
restriction of access to parks and protected areas. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MoTC, shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure that: (i) civil works on any particular section of the road selected 
under Part A of the Project will not start, unless an EMP for that road 
section, satisfactory to the Bank, has been prepared by the Borrower and 
disclosed locally, and on the MoTC website, not later than thirty (30) 
days before the beginning of the works; and (ii) the arrangements are 
made for public review and comment of the EMP, any comments 
received have been responded to in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and 
the final approved version of the EMP has been disclosed locally; and 
(iii) any provision of EMPs is not assigned, amended, abrogated or 
waived without prior review and approval of the Bank; 
 
(b) 
ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of carrying out of 
Part A of the Project comply with environmental standards and 
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; 
- 7 - 
 
(c) 
ensure that the selection of any road section under Part A of the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the EMP; 
(d) 
ensure the complete implementation of the EMPs in a manner acceptable 
to the Bank, including all necessary measures to minimize and to 
mitigate 
any 
adverse 
environmental 
impacts 
caused 
by 
the 
implementation of Part A of the Project; and 
(e) 
ensure that MoTC has appointed competent staff in adequate numbers 
and with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank as 
shall enable the MoTC to manage, coordinate and monitor the 
implementation of the EMPs. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
- 8 - 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for procurement of 
goods and works for the Project, provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
(i) 
entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority shareholding 
shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the Government unless 
they are, and can be shown to be, legally and financially autonomous 
and operate under commercial law; 
 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large and complex works 
projects; 
 
- 9 - 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract 
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of bidders; 
 
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
 
(v) 
estimated contract prices shall be advertised through the Procurement 
Plan; 
 
(vi) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening; 
 
(vii) 
no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated price.  
Bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions of 
clause 2.61 of the Procurement Guidelines are met; 
 
(viii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or 
expressed as a pass/fail criteria;  
 
(ix) 
advance Bank approval is required for any substantial modifications in 
the contract scope/conditions during implementation; and 
 
(x) 
the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
(b) 
Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
- 10 - 
 
 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality Based Selection 
(b) 
Selection Based on Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualification 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
(f) 
Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 11 - 
 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) 
Goods, Works, 
Consultants’ Services 
(including audit), 
Training, Incremental 
Operating Costs for the 
Project 
39,900,000 
80% 
(2) 
Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
40,000,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after June 10, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category (1). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 1 and November 1 
 
Beginning November 1, 2020 
 
through November 1, 2034 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.33% 
 
On May 1, 2035 
 
 
3.43% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
- 13 - 
 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
- 14 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
 “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“ARD” means the Armenian Roads Directorate, a State Non-Commercial 
Organization, established by the Borrower’s Government Decree #1720-N dated 
December 2, 2004, which will be responsible for the technical aspects of the 
Project implementation. 
 
3. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
5. 
“Disbursement Letter” means the letter dated as of the same date of this 
Agreement, including the additional instructions as referred to in Section IV A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be revised from time to time. 
 
6. 
“EMF” means the updated environmental management framework, dated May, 
2010, outlining the procedures for the environmental screening, management, 
consultation and disclosure related to the selection of the road sections under the 
Project. 
 
7. 
“EMPs” means an environmental management plan for a particular road section 
to be prepared by the Borrower, through MoTC, in accordance with the EMF and 
approved by Borrower and the Bank pursuant to Section I.C.3 of Schedule 2 to 
this 
Agreement, 
describing 
environmental 
mitigation, 
monitoring 
and 
institutional measures for selected road section/s under the Project. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the MoTC, ARD 
and PIU signed on January 22, 2009, as amended on June 8, 2010. 
 
- 15 - 
 
10. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
PIU on account of reasonable and necessary activities directly related to the 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
travel and salaries, but excluding the salaries of the civil servants, and any other 
expenditures that may be agreed upon by the Bank. 
 
11. 
“MoTC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Communications 
which is responsible for the overall implementation of the Project. 
 
12. 
“Operational Manual” means the updated manual approved on June 8, 2010 by 
the Borrower, through MoTC, describing procedures for implementation of the 
Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national 
laws and regulations of the Borrower, including procedures governing 
administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, monitoring and 
evaluation arrangements for the Project; as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
13. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for a Lifeline 
Roads Improvement Project between the Borrower and the International 
Development Association, dated February 26, 2009 (Credit No. 4549-AM). 
 
14. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
15. 
“PIU” means the Transport Project Implementation Unit, a State Institution, 
established by the Borrower’s Government Decree #1930-N dated December 28, 
2006 (reporting to MoTC) who will be responsible for day to day implementation 
of the Project. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 8, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section I.A.6 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, maintained by the Borrower, through MoTC, in Drams and to 
be used for financing the Borrower’s contribution to the Project’s expenditures. 
 
19. 
“Training” means expenses incurred by the Borrower and the PIU in connection 
with carrying out training activities under the Project, including travel costs and 
- 16 - 
 
per diem for local trainees and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of 
facilities and equipment and training materials and related supplies. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier 
that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
- 17 - 
 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1. 
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
- 18 - 
 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
