CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7899-CN  
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Jilin Agricultural Product Quality and Safety Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 20, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 20, 2010, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars  
(USD100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Jilin) to carry out 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and of the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
86-10-6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
4
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist Jilin Province in improving its 
agricultural product quality and reducing agricultural product safety risks through: (i) the 
introduction of good agricultural practices; (ii) improving the implementation of 
agricultural product safety related regulations; and (iii) strengthening the agricultural 
product safety monitoring system.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Promotion of Good Agricultural Practices for Agricultural Product  
 
Quality and Safety  
 
(1) 
Developing or improving local regulations and standards for safe agricultural 
products and promoting standardized good agricultural practices. 
 
(2) 
Establishing and managing about 200-300 demonstration sites to promote the 
adoption of standardized good agricultural practices, including provision of Sub-
grants to Sub-grant Beneficiaries to enable them to implement standardized good 
agricultural practices and demonstrate these good agricultural practices to other  
farmers through field demonstrations. 
 
(3) 
Strengthening agricultural product certification systems in Jilin Province, 
including, inter alia: equipping selected certification offices at provincial, city 
and county levels; providing training for the staff of the above-mentioned 
certification offices; and providing Sub-grants to Sub-grant Beneficiaries to 
enable them to obtain certifications for good agricultural practices promoted 
under the Project. 
 
Part B: Public Monitoring of Agricultural Product Quality and Safety  
 
Carrying out a program to strengthen the capacity of the Agricultural Committees, the 
Livestock Bureaus and the Water Resources Bureaus at the provincial and local levels in 
Jilin Province in managing and monitoring agricultural product safety and quality, 
including, inter alia: 
 
(1)  
Establishing and equipping government agencies supervising and managing 
agricultural product quality and safety at the provincial, city and county levels.  
 
6
(2)  
Developing agricultural product quality and safety information systems as 
agricultural product safety management tools at the relevant agricultural, 
livestock and water resources agencies in Jilin Province.  
 
(3)  
Constructing and/or rehabilitating provincial and municipal level laboratories for 
testing of agricultural product safety and for certification of agricultural product 
quality.  
 
(4)  
Establishing a baseline inventory for areas in Jilin Province that are unsuitable 
for agricultural production as a result of environmental contamination. 
 
Part C: Agricultural Product Quality and Safety Applied Research, Training, and  
 
Awareness Raising  
 
Carrying out a program to increase the level of knowledge of agricultural product safety 
and quality in Jilin Province, including, inter alia:  
 
(1) 
Providing Sub-grants to selected research institutes or universities for conducting 
research that can be directly applied to improving agricultural product safety. 
 
(2) 
Providing training to government staff, farmers and agricultural processors 
engaged in testing, inspection, supervision, and monitoring of agricultural 
product safety and quality; and upgrading curricula at university departments that 
train students in the areas of food safety and food quality testing. 
 
(3) 
Conducting public awareness campaigns utilizing local television, radio, and 
newspaper media outlets to promote agricultural product safety amongst farmers 
and the general public. 
 
Part D: Demonstration Models for Safe Agriculture Supply Chains 
 
Carrying out a program to develop and demonstrate viable business models for 
incorporating farmers into high value food supply chains, including, inter alia, provision 
of Sub-loans to selected private enterprises or farmer associations to develop and 
demonstrate models for integration of small-scale farmers into high quality, high value, 
and safe agricultural product supply chains.     
 
Part E: Project Management and Monitoring 
 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project implementing agencies at the provincial, 
municipal and county levels in Project management, financial management, procurement, 
social and environmental safeguards, monitoring and evaluation. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity (Jilin), under the following principal terms: 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the Front-end Fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall 
be recovered over a period of twenty seven (27) years, inclusive of a 
grace period of eight (8) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(d) 
A Front-end Fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
Anti-Corruption 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Jilin) to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than ninety (90) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A.1 of this Section II above, 
the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Jilin) to prepare, under 
8
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank on or about  
March 31, 2013, a mid-term report on the progress achieved in carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding such report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Jilin) to maintain or 
cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity (Jilin) to prepare and furnish to the Bank 
as part of the Project Report not later than ninety (90) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultants Services.
All goods, works and non-
consultants services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
9
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultants 
Services  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consultants services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultants 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consultants services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall 
be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s 
Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which 
may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum 
of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
10 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall 
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
11 
 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to 
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (i) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are 
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the 
procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered 
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
Project Implementing Entity shall have in place provisions for 
bidders to protest. 
 
(b)  
Shopping  
(c)         Commercial Practices 
(d)        Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely of national consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
12 
 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection  
(b)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single-source Selection 
(d)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)       Sole-source Selection 
(f)       Commercial Practices 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; (b) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more; and 
the first contract of goods,  works and non-consultants services to be procured 
using NCB procedures by a PMO at each level, regardless of contract value 
thereof; (c) all contracts for goods, works and non-consultants services to be 
procured based on Direct Contracting, regardless of contract value thereof;  
(d) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$100,000 or more for firms, and $50,000 or more for individuals; and (e) each 
contract proposed to be awarded under Single-source Selection and Sole-source 
Selection procedures.  
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
13 
 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed 
in Dollars) 
% of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
1. Sub-grants under Parts A.2, 
A.3 and C.1 of the Project 
 8,410,000 
100% of the Sub-grant 
amount disbursed 
2. Civil works 
16,890,000 
65% 
3. Goods 
40,060,000 
100% 
4. Consultant services, non-
consultants services, training, 
workshops, and study tours 
under Parts A.2, B, C.2, C.3 
and E of the Project  
14,390,000 
100% 
5. Sub-loans under Part D of the 
Project 
 20,000,000 
100% of the Sub-loan 
amount disbursed 
6. Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
7. Premium for Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and 
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL 
100,000,000 
14 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 8, 2010 for 
Eligible Expenditures under Category 4.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
 
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
Beginning September 15, 2018 
through September 15, 2036 
 
2.63% 
On March 15, 2037 
2.69% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan 
Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal 
in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such 
withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment 
Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal 
Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is 
the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to 
which a Currency Conversion applies. 
16 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption 
of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
17 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
(d)  
“County PMO” means the Project Management Office referred to in  
paragraph 1(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
(e) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of  livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means  collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plans” and the acronym “EMPs” mean, 
collectively, all the environmental management plans prepared to address 
environmental risks of the testing laboratories to be financed under the Project, 
all dated July 6, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, which set out the environmental protection measures 
in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements 
to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be revised from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and the term “Environmental 
Management Plan” means any of the Environmental Management Plans. 
 
(g)  
“Environmental Management Framework” means the framework prepared to 
mitigate environmental risks for the Project activities to be undertaken in the 
later years of the Project, dated July 6, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which sets out environmental 
protection guidelines and principles for preparing environmental management 
plan or plans if required by said framework as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said framework, as 
18 
 
such framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of  
the Bank. 
 
(h) 
“Ethnic Minority Planning Framework” means the Framework, dated  
June 26, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I to the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, which sets out: (i) policies and procedures to ensure 
meaningful consultation with, and the informed participation of, ethnic minority 
communities who are present in the Project area; and (ii) principles for the 
preparation of ethnic minorities development plan or plans, as may be required 
pursuant to the terms of said Framework, during the implementation of the 
Project, as said Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
 
(i) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
(j) 
“Implementation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between a 
County PMO and a Sub-grant Beneficiary or a Sub-loan Beneficiary pursuant to 
the provisions in  paragraph 5 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, and “Implementation Agreements” means, collectively, the plural 
thereof. 
 
(k) 
“ISO 17025” means the International Organization for Standardization’s general 
requirements for the competence of testing and calibration of laboratories. 
 
(l) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual, dated April 7, 2010 and referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same 
may be amended with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
 
(m)  
“Participating Counties” means the counties selected to participate in one or 
more Parts of the Project pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Operations 
Manual.   
 
(n) 
“Participating Municipalities” means the municipalities selected to participate in 
one or more Parts of the Project pursuant to the relevant provisions of the 
Operations Manual.   
 
(o)  
“Pest Management Plan” means the plan, dated July 1, 2009, and referred to in 
paragraph 3 Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may 
be amended with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(p)  
“PPMO” means the Provincial Project Management Office referred to in 
paragraph 1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
19 
 
(q) 
“Project Steering Group” means the group referred to in paragraph 1(a) of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
(r)  
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
(s)  
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 8, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(t)  
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
(u)  
“Project Implementing Entity” or “Jilin” means the Jilin Province and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(v) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” mean the Framework dated  
June 30, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement; said Policy Framework setting out the policies and 
procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of 
resettlement plans as may be required for Project activities, as said Policy 
Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of the 
Bank.  
(w) 
“RMB” means the Borrower’s currency. 
(x) 
“Sub-grant” means a grant to be made by the Project Implementing Entity out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to a Sub-grant Beneficiary under an Implementation 
Agreement and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Operations 
Manual for carrying out a Sub-project under Parts A.2, A.3 and C.1 of the 
Project, and the term “Sub-grants” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(y) 
“Sub-grant Beneficiary” means: (a) in the case of Parts A.2 and A.3 of the 
Project, an individual farmer, a farmer association, or a business enterprise 
selected to participate in said Parts of the Project; and (b) in the case of Part C.1 
of the Project, a research institute or a university selected to participate in said 
Part of the Project, all in accordance with the relevant selection process and 
procedures as set out in the Operations Manual, and the term “Sub-grant 
Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
20 
 
(z) 
“Sub-loan” means a loan to be made by the Project Implementing Entity out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to a Sub-loan Beneficiary under an Implementation 
Agreement and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Operations 
Manual for carrying out a Sub-project under Part D of the Project, and the term 
“Sub-loans” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(aa) 
“Sub-loan Beneficiary” means a private enterprise or a farmer association 
selected to participate in Part D of the Project in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Operations Manual, and the term “Sub-loan Beneficiaries” 
means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(bb) 
“Sub-project” means: (i) the activities to be carried out by a Sub-grant 
Beneficiary under Parts A.2, A.3, or C.1 of the Project; or (ii) the activities to be 
carried out by a Sub-loan Beneficiary under Part D of the Project, all under the 
relevant Implementation Agreement and in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Operations Manual, and the term “Sub-projects” means, 
collectively, the plural thereof.  
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the 
Conversion 
Guidelines.”
21 
 
