 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7917-TN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(Northern Tunis Wastewater Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
and 
 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ASSAINISSEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated October 7, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7917-TN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated October 7, 2010, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and OFFICE NATIONAL DE 
L’ASSAINISSEMEN (“Borrower”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty two million Dollars 
($52,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
- 2 - 
 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Basic Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s ability 
to perform any of its obligations under the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the GEF Grant Agreement. 
 
- 3 - 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank has been furnished to the Bank that the conditions specified below have 
been satisfied: 
 
(a) 
That the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower has been duly authorized or approved by all necessary 
governmental and corporate action. 
 
(b) 
That the GEF Grant Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank, providing a grant in support of the Project, has 
been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its 
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under 
it, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the President-Director-General of the 
Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Office National de l’Assainissement 
32, rue Hedi Nouira 
1023 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
ONAS  
 
 
 
 
216 71350411 
Tunis 
 
- 4 - 
 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Shamshad Akhtar 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ASSAINISSEMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Mohamed Nouri Jouini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide an environmentally safe disposal 
system for the treated wastewater which will not be reused in agriculture in the North of 
Tunis; and (b) increase the quantity and quality of treated wastewater made available to 
farmers to encourage its reuse in agriculture in the Borj Touil area. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Transfer of Treated Wastewater (TWW) to Increase its Reuse in Agriculture 
 
1. 
Installation of two HDPE pipelines of 1800 mm of diameter to convey the TWW 
under the El Khelij Canal, through a siphon, and along an existing dirt road until 
a ‘storage and regulation’ basin located about 2.7 km north from the discharge 
point, through the carrying out of works and the provisions of goods. 
 
2. 
Installation of a two-compartment basin of a capacity of 160,000 m3 and 
covering about six (6) hectares to segregate and store TWW based on its quality 
through the carrying out of works and the provisions of goods. 
 
3. 
Construction of a pumping station with a total capacity of about 2.7 m3/s to feed 
the outflow towards the reuse infrastructure as well as the transfer pipes and 
submarine outfall through the carrying out of works and the provisions of goods. 
 
4. 
Provision of equipment necessary to ensure the quality operation and appropriate 
maintenance of the pipelines, basin and pumping station under this Part A of the 
Project. 
 
Part B: Improvement of the Discharge of the Remaining TWW in the Mediterranean Sea 
 
Developing the infrastructure necessary to improve the discharge of the 
remaining TWW in the Mediterranean Sea through: 
 
1. 
Installation of one pressure HDPE pipeline of 1600 mm of diameter to convey 
the TWW for about five (5) km from the storage basin to the submarine outfall 
following the right side of the El Hissiène Oued, through the carrying out of 
works and the provisions of goods. 
 
2. 
Construction of about six (6) km long submarine outfall to discharge the TWW at 
a depth of about twenty (20) meters, through the carrying out of works and the 
provisions of goods. 
 
- 6 - 
 
3. 
Conducting a detailed review of the design of the submarine outfall and 
supervising the critical phases of its construction, through the provision of 
consultants’ services. 
 
Part C: Monitoring and Capacity Strengthening 
 
1. 
Strengthening the monitoring systems in the Project Area through the provision 
of consultants’ services. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the coordination mechanisms among agencies involved in 
wastewater reuse, in particular the Borrower and MARHP, through the provision 
of consultants’ services. 
 
3. 
Preparing the detailed designs for: (a) the improved discharge through a 
submarine outfall in the South of Tunis; and (b) a new wastewater treatment 
plant in the North of Tunis, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
 
4. 
Dissemination of TWW reuse experience in Tunisia and contribution to regional 
partnerships, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
 
- 7 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, ensure that it maintains 
at all times staff and financial resources appropriate for Project implementation. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all activities under the Project are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the ESIA, EMP, and LAP.  The Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ESIA, EMP, and/or LAP or any 
provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the land acquisition activities under the Project in 
accordance with the LAP in a timely manner. 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate information on the implementation of 
the environmental management plans and/or environmental mitigation measures 
and on land acquisition is suitably included in the reports referred to in Section 
II.A of this Schedule 2. 
4. 
Upon completion of the dispersion modeling studies, the Borrower shall update 
and submit to the Bank, for its review, the ESIA and shall by not later than June 
30, 2012, publicly disclose the revised ESIA as approved by the Bank. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by 
such report. 
- 8 - 
 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. In addition, the 
Borrower shall have its financial statements reflecting its general operations and 
its financial condition (the “General Financial Statements”) prepared in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of 
the Financial Statements and the General Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements 
and the audited General Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
- 9 - 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of goods and works for the Project, subject to the following 
additional provisions: 
 
(i) 
The bidding document clearly explains the bid evaluation, 
award criteria and bidder qualification criteria; 
 
(ii) 
Any bidder registered in an eligible country, as defined in 
paragraphs 1.6 to 1.8 of the Procurement Guidelines will be 
eligible to bid; therefore no restriction based on nationality of 
bidders or origin of goods shall apply and foreign bidders shall 
not be subject to any unjustified requirement which will affect 
their ability to bid; 
 
(iii) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
participate only if they can establish that they: (A) are legally 
and financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law, 
and (C) are independent from contracting entity; 
 
(iv) 
Bidders will be allowed to deliver their bids by mail or by hand 
before the expiration of the deadline for submitting bids; 
 
(v) 
Technical and financial envelopes are submitted together and 
opened in public, simultaneously during a unique session open 
to the public for works, goods and non-consultant services; 
amounts shall be read aloud during the public session; bidders 
or their representatives are authorized to attend the bid opening 
session. The date, time and place for bid opening shall be 
announced in the invitation to bid; this date and time shall be 
the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or immediately 
thereafter; 
 
- 10 - 
 
(vi) 
Bids are evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in 
the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms and 
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted 
the lowest evaluated responsive bid, and price shall not be 
negotiated with the lowest evaluated bidder except under the 
provisions stated in paragraph 2.63 of the Procurement 
Guidelines; 
 
(vii) 
Procedures will include the publication of the evaluation results, 
the contract award and provision for bidders to protest; 
 
(viii) 
If foreign firms wish to participate, they shall be allowed to do 
so and no provision for preferential treatment of national firms 
or mandatory association with a national firm or prior 
registration in the country of the Borrower shall be applied; 
 
(ix) 
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding 
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding 
procurement must be submitted to and found acceptable by the 
Bank; and 
 
(x) 
Each bidding document and contract for goods and works to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that the 
supplier, contractor and subcontractor shall permit the Bank, at 
its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
bid submission and performance of the contract, and to have 
said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, 
contractor or subcontractor of such provision may amount to 
obstructive practice. 
 
(b)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 11 - 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
 
(d)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e)  Single-source Selection 
 
(f)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(g)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 12 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods 
 
 
13,610,000 
100% 
(2) Works under: 
 
(a) Parts A.2 and A.3 of the 
Project 
 
 
(b) Parts B.1 and B.2 of the 
Project 
 
 
 
 
 
5,680,000 
 
 
 
29,930,000 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services under: 
 
 
(a) Part B.3 of the Project 
 
 
(b) Parts C.2 and C.3 of the 
Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
420,000 
 
 
 
2,230,000 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
130,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
52,000,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
- 13 - 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
1. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on: December 31, 
2010, a ratio of total operating revenues to total operating expenses of 
not less than 0.83; December 31, 2011, a ratio of total operating revenues 
to total operating expenses of not less than 0.86; December 31, 2012, a 
ratio of total operating revenues to total operating expenses of not less 
than 0.88; December 31, 2013, a ratio of total operating revenues to total 
operating expenses of not less than 0.91; and December 31, 2014, a ratio 
of total operating revenues to total operating expenses of not less than 
0.96. 
 
(b) 
Before July 31 in each fiscal year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish 
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years 
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and excluding depreciation 
and other non-operating expenditures. 
 
(ii) 
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: by  
December 31, 2011, maintain a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities of not less than 0.57; by December 31, 2012, maintain a ratio 
of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 0.57; by December 
31, 2013, maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not 
less than 0.59; by December 31, 2014, maintain a ratio of current assets 
to current liabilities of not less than 0.57; by December 31, 2015, 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 
0.59. 
 
- 14 - 
 
(b) 
Before July 31 in each fiscal year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish 
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years 
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its rates ) in order to meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year. 
 
(ii) 
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve (12) months, 
including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
 
(iii) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(iv) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
- 15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 
15 and October 15, the first installment to be payable on the twelfth (12th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed 
Amount and the last installment to be payable on the fortieth (40th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one/twenty-nine (1/29) 
of the Disbursed Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining 
outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount. 
 
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after 
October 15, 2034, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount 
of all such installments. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed 
Amount. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that 
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency. 
 
- 16 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Basic Legislation” means the Guarantor’s Law No. 74-73, dated August 3, 
1974, as amended and completed by the Guarantor’s Law No. 93-41, dated April 
19, 1993, pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is operating 
as an industrial and commercial public institution. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated April 30, 2010 duly 
adopted by the Borrower, included in the ESIA, which sets out the environmental 
mitigation and protection measures in respect of the carrying out of the Project, 
as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said measures, as such Plan may be amended from time to 
time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“ESIA” means the environmental and social impact assessment, acceptable to the 
Bank, prepared by the Borrower, dated April 30, 2010, evaluating the 
environmental and social impact of the Project and setting forth, through the 
EMP, the mitigating, compensating and monitoring measures for the Project, as 
the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower 
and the Bank. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
8. 
“GEF Grant Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement; as such agreement may 
be amended from time to time.  “GEF Grant Agreement” includes all appendices, 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the GEF Grant Agreement. 
 
- 17 - 
 
9. 
“Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement between the Guarantor and the 
Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee 
Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Guarantor” means the Republic of Tunisia. 
 
11. 
“LAP” means the Land Acquisition Plan dated April 30, 2010, duly adopted by 
the Borrower, for the carrying out of land acquisition activities under the Project, 
which Plan identifies the Project sites requiring land acquisition and sets forth the 
procedures to be followed in the carrying out of said activities, as such Plan may 
be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“MARHP” means Ministère de l’Agriculture, des Ressources Hydrauliques et de 
la Pêche, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources and Fisheries of the 
Guarantor, or any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 29. 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Area” means the geographical area including its in-land part the Garâat 
Ben Ammar lowland area and limited in the South by a line joining the existing 
outflow of the TWW located in the immediate North of the “Cité Chaker” 
residential area to the village of Raoued; in the East by the limit of the existing 
irrigation perimeter of Borj Touil; and in the North by a line joining the Village 
of Borj Touil to the seashore North of the El Hissiène open channel and including 
the Financial Harbor, as well as the coastal areas along Gammarth and Raoued 
beaches located 1 km on each side from the estuary of the El Khelij canal and 
300 m towards the sea and marine areas of the Gulf of Tunis located within a 5 
km radius circle from the extremity of the submarine outfall. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:  
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
- 18 - 
 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
