 
  
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7870-BR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(São Paulo Water Recovery Project-REÁGUA –  
Programa Estadual de Apoio à Recuperação das Águas – REÁGUA) 
 
 
between 
 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 27, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7870-BR 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated September 27, 2010, between STATE OF SÃO PAULO (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty four million, four hundred and ninety six 
thousand Dollars ($64,496,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
- 2 - 
  
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection of the 
Guarantor and through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National Treasury,  request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through SSE, with the assistance of Service 
Providers in respect of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
(a)  
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any of 
the Service Providers shall have failed to comply with the provisions of its 
Project and Performance Agreement - PPA. 
 
 
(b)  
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 7.02 of the General Conditions, 
it is understood that, if any of the Service Providers shall have failed to comply 
with the provisions of its PPA the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for expenditures attributable to the respective Service Provider.  
 
- 3 - 
  
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement concurrently occurs with respect to all of the 
Service Providers participating in the Project and is continuing for a period of 90 days 
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 
The Loan has been registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank.  
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on November 4, 
2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado de São Paulo 
Av. Rangel Pestana, 300 – 5º andar 
01017-911 São Paulo – SP 
Brasil 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3107-6942 
 
With copy to: 
 
Secretaria de Saneamento e Energia 
Rua Bela Cintra, 847 – 14º andar 
01415-903 São Paulo – SP 
Brasil 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3218-5629 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 4 - 
  
 
 
AGREED at São Paulo, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Alberto Goldman  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase clean water availability in the Critical 
Watersheds. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1:   
Water Availability Increase 
1. 
Carrying out of activities aimed to control and reduce real water losses within the Critical 
Watersheds, including inter alia: determination of baseline water losses, sectorization 
into district metered areas, installation of pressure controls, implementation of macro and 
micro-metering, development of a technical cadastre, implementation of active control of 
leaks, management of networks and infrastructure, and improvements in the speed and 
quality of repairs (the Water Loss Control and Reduction Subprojects). 
 
2. 
Carrying out of activities aimed to improve water consumption efficiency in selected 
public schools through a more rational use of water including, inter alia, diagnosis of 
water consumption practices and potential for reduction, installation of water-saving 
appliances such as improved faucets and toilets, and implementation of awareness 
campaigns to educate students and teachers to economize their use of water (the Water 
Rational Use Subprojects).  
 
3. 
Carrying out of activities aimed to incentivize the reuse of treated wastewater for 
industrial, agricultural and other purposes and develop reuse techniques including, inter 
alia: building of additional treatment facilities and networks to transport treated 
wastewater to the end user (the Treated Wastewater Reuse Subprojects). 
 
Part 2:  
Water Quality Enhancement 
1. 
Carrying out of activities aimed at improving the quality of water in the Critical 
Watersheds, including, inter alia: preparing engineering designs, obtaining required 
environmental and construction licenses and mobilizing construction firms, building 
service lines, and connecting households to the networks (the Wastewater Collection 
Network Subprojects).  
 
2. 
Carrying out of activities aimed at improving the quality of water in the Critical 
Watersheds, including, inter alia: installing gravity wastewater pipes and forced 
wastewater pipes; and building wastewater pumping stations (the Wastewater Transport 
System Subprojects). 
 
3. 
Carrying out of activities aimed at improving the quality of water in the Critical 
Watersheds, including, inter alia: constructing new wastewater treatment plants in areas 
linked to the Critical Watersheds where wastewater is currently untreated and where 
small-size treatment plants offer satisfactory solutions, and upgrading existing 
- 6 - 
  
wastewater systems to raise their effluent quality standards (the Wastewater Treatment 
Plant Upgrading and/or Construction Subprojects). 
 
 
Part 3:  
Institutional and Technical Strengthening 
 
1. 
Carrying out of activities aimed to increase the efficiency of the Borrower’s water and 
sanitation sector by enhancing and consolidating its institutional, legal and regulatory 
framework and strengthening of its technical expertise including, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
the carrying out of an impact evaluation study on the output-based financing 
scheme financed by the Loan vis-à-vis the traditional input-based financing 
approach, specifically on impact of the output-based approach on the 
construction time period and costs and sustainability; and 
(b) 
the provision of technical assistance, capacity building, and training to water and 
sanitation service providers, (including the Service Providers) in the design, 
operation, and maintenance of programs and facilities associated with the 
implementation of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project including institutional 
restructuring, corporate governance, and subproject preparation. 
 
2. 
Provision of support for Project management, supervision and auditing, including 
provision of experts for the strengthening of the PMU in the management of the Project 
and in the verification of Outputs and the PPA Performance Indicators, publications and 
dissemination activities, and training and capacity building to strengthen the Borrower’s 
capacity in matters related to Project implementation and supervision. 
 
 
- 7 - 
  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain throughout Project implementation, a management unit (PMU) with the 
powers and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
no later than two months from the Effective Date, have said unit fully staffed 
with personnel with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the following key staff: a coordinator and experts, one each to handle 
the technical, procurement, financial management and safeguard aspects of the 
Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, no later than four months after the Effective Date or before 
submitting the first application for withdrawal for Subprojects, whichever shall occur 
first, employ a verification agent (VA), under terms of employment or contracting 
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include inter alia VA’s obligation:  
 
(a) 
to assist the Borrower in the verification of achievement of the Outputs and 
compliance with the PPA Performance Indicators of the Subprojects; and 
 
(b) 
to carry out ex-post reviews of the completeness, accuracy, and authenticity of 
the documentation provided by Service Providers, as well as ex-post physical 
spot verifications of a meaningful and random sample of Outputs and PPA 
Performance Indicators. 
 
B. 
Agreements 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall enter into a Project and Performance Agreement (PPA) with 
each of the Service Providers, and the respective Municipality when applicable, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth inter alia: 
 
(i) 
the Service Provider’s obligation:  
 
(I) 
to carry out the Subproject or Subprojects, as the case may be, 
and deliver the Outputs set forth in the PPA in accordance with 
the requirements and schedule included therein;  
 
(II) 
to meet the PPA Performance Indicators set forth in the PPA; 
 
(III) 
to comply with the safeguard, fiduciary and technical 
requirements of the Subproject; 
 
- 8 - 
  
(IV) 
to enable the required financial and procurement audits to be 
carried out by the Borrower, as well as the verifications of 
compliance of delivery of Outputs and PPA Performance 
Indicators; 
 
(V) 
to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to the 
Subproject and enable the Borrower and the Bank to review the 
documents related to the Subproject and enter the construction 
sites of the Subproject; 
 
(VI) 
to comply with the required performance self evaluations;  
 
(VII) 
to comply with the procurement requirements of the Subproject, 
including the procurement methods applicable as per the 
Procurement Plan to comply with the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; and 
 
(VIII) to refund payments made for Outputs as follows: 
 
(A) 
for Wastewater Collection Network Subprojects  refund 
the payments made for the first Output indicated in the 
table in paragraph 3 of Section IV of this Schedule if the 
second Output is not delivered; 
(B) 
for Wastewater Transport System Subprojects refund 
any payments made for Outputs if the first, second 
and/or the third Output indicated in the table in 
paragraph 3 of Section IV of this Schedule and as set 
forth in the PPA is not delivered; and  
(C) 
for Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrading and/or 
Construction Subprojects refund the payments made for 
the first and second Outputs indicated in the table in  
paragraph 3 of Section IV of this Schedule if the third 
Output is not delivered. 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower’s obligation: 
 
(I) 
to pay for the Unit Costs of Outputs in the amounts and at the 
intervals specified in the PPA, and including: (A) an initial 
payment upon completion of the first Output or set of Outputs, 
(B)  intermediate payments at the delivery or completion of each 
of  the subsequent Outputs required for the Subproject, and (C) a 
final payment upon the Service Provider’s fulfillment of the PPA 
Performance Indicators, all as verified by the VA and the 
Borrower; and  
 
- 9 - 
  
(II) 
to ensure that the Service Provider complies with the provisions 
applicable to the Subproject as set forth in the Loan Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the PPA or any of its provisions. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall 
cause the Service Providers implementing Treated Wastewater Reuse 
Subprojects: 
 
(i) 
prior to implementation of the Subproject, to enter into an agreement or 
other legal arrangement with the prospective user of the treated water 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth, inter 
alia, the terms and quantity of such use; and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to amend, assign, abrogate, 
waive or fail to enforce the contract or other agreement referred to in (a) 
(i) above, or any of its provisions. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Operational Manual 
 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing, inter alia:  
 
 
(a) 
the functions, responsibilities and training requirements for the personnel 
responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including the PMU; 
 
 
(b) 
procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for financial 
management, disbursement and audits of the Project and the respective forms, 
reports and guidelines; 
 
 
(c) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;  
 
 
(d) 
the eligibility and selection criteria of the Subprojects as set forth in the Call for 
Proposals, the requirements and operating guidelines applicable to the 
Subprojects, size of eligible contracts, and in respect of each type of Subprojects, 
the Outputs, the Unit Cost of such Outputs as per the agreed typologies, and the 
PPA Performance Indicators;  
 
 
(e) 
a PPA model; 
 
 
- 10 - 
  
 
(f)  
the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
 
 
and 
 
(g) 
the counterpart funding requirements of the Project.  
 
 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
E. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall in respect of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project: 
 
(a) 
ensure that no Subproject requiring resettlement is authorized for implementation 
under the Project;  
 
(b) 
cause the Service Providers, in the event that during implementation of a 
Subproject resettlement is required: (I) to furnish to the Bank for its approval, in 
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, prior to initiating the 
bidding process for any contract for construction works that call for resettlement, 
any needed Resettlement Plan, and (II) to carry out such Resettlement Plan, in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
cause the Service Providers to carry out the Subprojects in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan, and furnish to the Bank any needed 
documentation as required by such Environmental Management Plan. 
 
F. 
Other Covenants 
 
1. 
For the purposes of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through SSE, 
monitor the implementation of the Subprojects, the delivery of the Outputs and 
compliance with the PPA Performance Indicators, on a periodic basis, all under terms 
acceptable to the Bank.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through SSE, jointly with the Bank and not later than twenty-four 
months after the Effective Date, review the Outputs and related Unit Costs, and adjust 
them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 2. above the Borrower may, through 
SSE, propose the Bank additional reviews of the Outputs and related Unit Costs earlier or 
later than as set forth in the preceding paragraph, and after such reviews, adjust them as 
necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
 
- 11 - 
  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.  
 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Works.   All goods, non-consultant services and 
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
- 12 - 
  
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, non-consultant services and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Works.  The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consultant services and works.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding including in respect of goods, works and non-
consultant services, convite, tomada de preços and concorrência (set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law no. 8666 of June 21, 1993), pregão eletrônico (set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law no, 10520 of July 17, 2002), under COMPRASNET, the procurement 
portal of the Guarantor, or any other e-procurement system approved by the Bank, 
subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall 
be acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) Shopping  
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Quality Based Selection 
(d) Fixed Cost Selection 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 13 - 
  
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
(a)  
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, 
Non-consultants’ 
Services, and  
consultants’ services for 
Part 3 of the Project 
5,000,000 
100% 
(2) Subprojects 
55,000,000 
100% of the applicable Unit 
Costs of the Outputs included 
in a Subproject paid by the 
Borrower to the Service 
Provider as per the terms of 
the PPA 
(3) Unallocated 
4,334,760 
 
(4) Front-end Fee 
161,240 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
0 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
64,496,000 
 
 
 
(b) 
The term “Non-consultants Services” means the costs of publications and 
dissemination activities, training and capacity building, except consulting fees, 
under Part 3 of the Project. 
 
- 14 - 
  
3. 
The Outputs eligible for financing for each type of Subproject are as follows: 
 
Subproject 
Output 
Water Loss Control and Reduction 
Subprojects 
Cubic meters of recovered water as measured 
against the baseline set forth in the PPA 
Water Rational Use Subprojects 
Water saving appliances installed and 
environmental campaign executed 
Treated Wastewater Reuse Subprojects 
1. Wastewater reuse facilities (treatment plant, 
transport and reservoirs) built and operational 
2. Wastewater reuse facilities operating in 
accordance with operational standards set forth 
in the PPA 
Wastewater Collection Network Subprojects 
1. Engineering designs, required licenses and 
contractor’s mobilization  
2. Service lines and connections built 
3. Active connections operating in accordance 
with operational standards set forth in the 
PPA. 
Wastewater Transport System Subprojects 
1. Meters of gravity wastewater pipes installed 
2. Meters of forced wastewater pipes installed 
3. Wastewater pumping stations installed  
4. Wastewater transport system operating in 
accordance with operational standards set 
forth in the PPA 
Wastewater 
Treatment 
Plant 
Upgrading 
and/or Construction Subprojects 
1. Earthworks and foundation works completed 
2. Physical structure of wastewater treatment 
plant completed 
3. Construction completed and wastewater 
treatment plant in testing mode 
4. Wastewater treatment plant operating in 
accordance with environmental standards set 
forth in the PPA 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after March 8, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
(a)  
If the Bank shall have determined at any time after the expiration of the terms of 
a PPA that a Service Provider has failed to deliver any of the Outputs of a 
Subproject that would enable the Borrower to call for a refund of earlier financed 
Outputs as mentioned in Section I.B. 1 (a) (i) (VIII) of this Schedule, the Bank 
may at that time obtain a refund to the Bank from the Borrower of an amount 
equal to the amount of Loan proceeds disbursed to finance those earlier Outputs. 
 
- 15 - 
  
 
(b)  
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be credited 
to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2015. The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it 
agrees with such extension. 
 
- 16 - 
  
SCHEDULE 3 
 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2015 
 
through December 15, 2039 
 
2% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
- 17 - 
  
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 18 - 
  
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Call for Proposals” means Edital para a Seleção de Ações de Saneamento Ambiental no 
Âmbito do Programa REÁGUA, the call for proposals for Subprojects issued by the 
Borrower on November 27, 2008.  
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Critical Watersheds” means the following watersheds in the Borrower’s territory: 
Piracicaba/Capivari/Jundiaí; Alto Tietê; Sapucaí Mirim/Grande; Mogi Guaçu; and 
Sorocaba/Médio Tietê. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan for assessment and management of 
the environmental, cultural property, and natural habitats aspects of the Project dated 
April 3, 2009 and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
8. 
“Municipality” means any municipality in the Borrower’s territory, located within the 
geographical boundaries of any of the Critical Watersheds, and which owns a Service 
Provider that will execute one or more activities under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project. 
 
9. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and approved by the Bank on March 9, 2010, as the same may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
10. 
“Output” means any of the construction phase or operation phase outputs eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in paragraph 3 of Section IV. A of 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement for each type of Subproject and in the numbers and 
typology included in the respective PPA. 
 
11. 
“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section I. A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 55494, dated February 26, 2010. 
 
12. 
“PPA” means any of the Project and Performance Agreements referred to in Section I. B. 
1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 19 - 
  
13. 
“PPA Performance Indicators” means the targets and the indicators set forth in a PPA to 
be fulfilled by the Service Provider as conditions of sustainability of a Subproject for the 
final payment of the Unit Cost of Outputs. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
10, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Resettlement Plan” means any plan prepared following the requirements of the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and approved by the Bank. 
 
17. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework dated April 3, 2009 and set forth 
in the Operational Manual defining the procedures for the involuntary resettlement of 
population in connection with Subprojects. 
 
18. 
“Reuse Water Agreement” means any of the agreements or other legal arrangements 
referred to in Section I. B. 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Service Provider” means a public utility owned by the Borrower or a Municipality or a 
public municipal agency which provides water and/or sanitation services in any of the 
Critical Watersheds, has received a favorable financial management and procurement 
assessment by the Bank for purposes of the Subproject and is otherwise eligible to 
participate in the implementation of Subprojects in accordance with the criteria and 
requirements of the Operational Manual. 
 
20. 
“SSE” means the Borrower’s Secretariat for Water Supply, Sanitation and Energy. 
 
21. 
“Subprojects” means collectively Water Loss Control and Reduction Subprojects, 
Wastewater Collection Network Subprojects, Water Rational Use Subprojects, Treated 
Wastewater Reuse Subprojects, Wastewater Transport System Subprojects, and 
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrading and/or Construction Subprojects. 
 
22. 
“Treated Wastewater Reuse Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 1.3 of the 
Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in any of the Critical Watersheds eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and other 
requirements of the Operational Manual. 
 
23. 
“Unit Cost” means the unit cost of goods, works, non-consultant services and consultant 
services required for implementation of each of the Outputs of a Subproject in the 
typology specified in the PPA, all as set forth in the Operational Manual and the PPA. 
 
24. 
“VA” means the verification agent referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
- 20 - 
  
25. 
“Wastewater Collection Network Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 2.1 
of the Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in any of the Critical Watersheds 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and 
other requirements of the Operational Manual. 
 
26. 
“Wastewater Transport System Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 2.2 of 
the Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in any of the Critical Watersheds 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and 
other requirements of the Operational Manual. 
 
27. 
“Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrading and/or Construction Subproject” means the 
activities referred to in Part 2.3 of the Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in 
any of the Critical Watersheds eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the criteria and other requirements of the Operational Manual. 
 
28. 
“Water Loss Control and Reduction Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 
1.1 of the Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in any of the Critical Watersheds 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and 
other requirements of the Operational Manual. 
 
29. 
“Water Rational Use Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 1.2 of the Project 
to be carried out by a Service Provider in any of the Critical Watersheds eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and other 
requirements of the Operational Manual. 
