 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7835-KZ 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(Tax Administration Reform Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 12 , 2010 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7835-KZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated July 12, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventeen million Dollars 
($17,000,000), (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
- 2 - 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Tax Committee in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The PSC has been established by the Borrower with a composition, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The PMU has been established by the Borrower with a composition, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, including a 
financial management consultant and a procurement consultant. 
 
(c) 
The financial management accounting software has been updated, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that project-specific recording and 
reporting requirements are met. 
 
(d)  
The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by 
the Borrower. 
 
(e) 
The PIP, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the Borrower. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
- 3 - 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
11 Pobedy Street 
Astana 010000 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
265126 (FILIN)  
7- 7172-717785 
  
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
  and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Bolat Zhamishev 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Sebnem Akkaya 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to reform and strengthen the Borrower’s tax 
administration in order to improve the level of voluntary taxpayer compliance with tax 
regulations; (ii) to enhance effectiveness to fight tax evasion; and (iii) to increase 
administrative efficiency and reduce the potential for corruption. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Institutional Development 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services, training and Operating Costs for: (a) 
comprehensive review and redesign of the organizational structure of the taxation 
administration headquarters and regional offices; (b) reorganization and consolidations of 
local offices based on rationalization; (c) analysis and reform of the managerial structure 
of the taxation administration and decision-making modalities; (d) comprehensive review 
of human resource (HR) policies, civil service legislative framework and development of 
reformed workforce planning and strategy; (e) review of the Human Resource 
Management Information System (HRMIS) and its integration with the information 
technology (IT) system of the Tax Committee and the e-government gateway; (f) upgrade 
of HRMIS hardware and licenses; (g) development of a training strategy and curriculum 
for tax administration staff; (h) preparation of a feasibility study for a training institute for 
the taxation administration; (i) development of technical infrastructure equipments for 
training institute and distance learning system; and (j) building capacity of the taxation 
administration through study tour, managerial/HR training, and language training.  
 
Part 2: Operational Development 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services, training and Operating Costs for: (a) 
review and redesign of business processes of the taxation administration; (b) 
development of an integrated database for taxpayers; (c) streamlining of data/information 
exchange procedures with relevant government bodies; (d) development of a universal 
filing methodology for the taxation administration; (e) development of a risk-based audit 
selection methodology; (f) development of analytical methods in market intelligence, 
non-compliance trends, risk perception of risk, and use of feedback from current audits 
for the taxation administration; (g) development of a cameral audit information system; 
(h) development of protocol for information exchange with other agencies and 
procedures for use of third party information and indirect methods; (i) development of 
modalities of possible transfer of local taxes to municipalities; (j) improvement in 
enforced taxation collection and arrears management; (k) design of a modern call center, 
knowledge database, web-based access to taxpayer account and single-client software;  
(l) review and reform of the departmental appeal system for taxation administration; (m) 
development of a specialized tax court; (n) redesign of the VAT registration system in 
- 5 - 
 
accordance with the harmonization protocol under the customs union; (o) development of  
a VAT information exchange system for the customs union; (p) design of an automated 
VAT refund system; (q) review and reform of the excise taxation procedure; (r) 
improvement in non-resident taxation, including automated enquiry and economic 
monitoring; (s) building capacity of the taxation administration through study tour and 
training for the above activities, including training for tax court judges; (t) provision of 
business-process reengineering software for the taxation administration; and (u) provision 
of specialized software and laptops for field audits. 
 
Part 3: IT Infrastructure Development 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services, training and Operating Costs for: (a) 
capacity building in organization and management of the IT modernization; (b) 
development of  integrated tax management system; (c) development of integrated data 
warehouse; (d) development of concept, architecture and applications for data processing 
centers (DPCs); (e) development of central and regional DPCs, including printing and 
mailing systems; (f) development of voice and data networks; (g) development of call 
center; (h) development of video-conferencing facilities; (i) development of risk 
management system; and (j) development of subsystems for the IT infrastructure. 
 
Part 4: Project Management 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services, training and Operating Costs of the 
Tax Committee to support Project coordination, implementation and management. 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following 
institutional and other arrangements: 
1. 
The PSC shall have overall responsibility for Project oversight, policy guidance, 
as well as overall coordination of the Project in accordance with the requirements, 
criteria, organizational arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  
2. 
The Borrower, through the Tax Committee, shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and operational 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and the PIP, and shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any provisions of the Operational Manual or the PIP without prior 
approval of the Bank.  
3. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain the PMU and the PSC with a composition, resources, and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that its annual budget provides for sufficient 
counterpart co-financing funds for the Tax Committee to cover all contracts included in 
the approved annual Procurement Plan under the Project. 
5. 
Not  later than June 30, 2011, the Borrower shall establish and maintain during 
the implementation of the Project, an information technology platform in the MoF, as 
well as the related hardware for the integrated tax management and the data management 
systems, facilitating information exchange between the Tax Committee and other 
agencies of the MoF, as satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
- 7 - 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
Not later than June 30, 2012, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Bank, 
a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to 
as the Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
 
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and 
 
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall prepare at least four (4) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
and furnish to the Bank, a separate report describing the status of implementation of each 
component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to 
in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
- 8 - 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Shopping 
(b)  
Direct contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
- 9 - 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based selection 
(b)  
Fixed Budget selection 
(c)  
Least Cost Selection 
(d)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  
Single Source Selection 
(f)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, Operating Costs 
and Training for the Project 
 
17,000,000 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
$17,000,000 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
 (a)  
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
- 11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
 
beginning April 15, 2015  
 
through October 15, 2024 
 
 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
- 12 - 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
- 13 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“MoF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
 
6. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the Tax 
Committee on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including dissemination of Project related information, office rent and utilities, 
office and equipment insurance, maintenance and repair, advertisements, travel, 
security, communication, bank charges, and other miscellaneous costs directly 
associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank. 
 
7. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted 
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 (d) of the Agreement, setting forth the 
operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the 
implementation of the Project, including a manual of financial procedures, 
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national laws and 
regulations of the Borrower, as the same may be amended and supplemented 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval. 
 
8. 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan to be adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 4.01 (e) of this Agreement, and satisfactory to the Bank, 
setting forth a plan of activities for the Project. 
 
9. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit under the Tax Service Development 
and Modernization Division of the Tax Committee to be established pursuant to 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
- 14 - 
 
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 1, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee, to be established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, responsible for Project oversight, 
policy guidance as well as overall coordination of the Project, chaired by the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower or his delegated representative, and which 
shall include key stakeholders from the private sector and from relevant 
government agencies. 
 
13. 
“Tax Committee” means the Tax Committee of the Borrower’s MoF established 
pursuant to the Provision on the Tax Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan RK No. 201, April 24, 2008, or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
 
14. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment 
rental, travel, per diem costs of trainees and trainers and trainers’ fees. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end 
Fee and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the 
Association (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such 
Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective 
Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan 
Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the 
advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn to 
- 15 - 
 
itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing 
Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank 
or the Association or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank 
or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the 
Execution Date (as herein defined) or such other date as 
requested by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank, on which 
the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in the 
Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 
 
 
