 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7916-SV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Local Government Strengthening Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 19, 2010  
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated July 19, 2010, between the REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars 
(US$80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. The Payment Dates are February 15th and August 15th in each year. 
 
 
-2- 
 
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. (a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal eight million Dollars ($8,000,000) shall be converted from the 
initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in 
accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower, through SAE, shall: (a) carry out Part A of the Project, with 
the participation of Municipalities and FISDL, and the assistance of ISDEM, 
pursuant to the provisions of the  Municipal Framework Agreements and 
Implementation Agreement;  (b) cause ISDEM to carry out: (i) Parts B, D.2, D.3 
and D.4 of the Project with the assistance of FISDL, (ii) those activities under part 
D.1 of the Project pertaining to ISDEM, and (iii) Part C of the Project with the 
assistance of SSDT, all pursuant to the provisions of the Implementation 
Agreement; and (c) cause FISDL to carry out those activities under Part D.1 of 
the Project pertaining to FISDL, pursuant to the provisions of the Implementation 
Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
 
-3- 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
FISDL or ISDEM shall have failed to comply with any of its pertinent 
obligations under the Implementation Agreement.  
 
(b) 
The FISDL Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Bank, the ability of the Borrower and/or FISDL to perform any of their 
respective obligations under this Agreement and/or the Implementation 
Agreement (as the case may be). 
 
(c) 
The ISDEM Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially 
and adversely the ability of the Borrower and/or ISDEM to perform any of 
their 
respective 
obligations 
under 
this 
Agreement 
and/or 
the 
Implementation Agreement (as the case may be). 
 
4.02  The additional events of acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, 
through SAE, ISDEM, and FISDL. 
 
5.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that the 
Implementation Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower, through 
SAE, ISDEM and FISDL and is legally binding upon the Borrower, ISDEM and 
FISDL in accordance with its terms. 
 
-4- 
 
 
5.03. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on December 1, 2011.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Boulevard de los Héroes 1231 
San Salvador, El Salvador 
 
Facsimile: (503) 2225 – 7491; (503) 2244-6419 
 
6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-5- 
 
AGREED at San Salvador, Republic of El Salvador, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Carlos Enrique Cáceres Chávez 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Robert B. Zoellick 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Witnessed by: 
 
/s/ Mr. Mauricio Funes Cartagena 
President of the Republic of El Salvador
 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the administrative, financial and 
technical processes, systems and capacity of local governments to deliver basic services, 
as prioritized by local communities, in the medium and long-term.   
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Promotion of Decentralized Service Delivery 
 
1. 
Provision of Subproject Grants to Municipalities. 
 
Part B: Strengthening of Municipal Governments 
 
1. 
Strengthening of Municipalities’ institutional and technical capacity to design and 
implement Municipal Subprojects, through, inter alia, the provision of technical 
assistance and training to Municipalities’ personnel to prepare, implement and 
supervise Municipal Subprojects. 
 
2. 
Support for the implementation of the Municipal Administrative Career Law, 
through, inter alia: (a) the development or update (as the case may be), and 
implementation of municipal rules, processes and procedures; (b) the support of 
the municipal training center in ISDEM, and the establishment of regional offices 
of the center in selected sites; and (c) the creation of a national registry for the 
municipal administrative career, including the carrying out of a periodic update of 
the information contained in said registry. 
 
3. 
Strengthening of the participatory planning capacity of Municipalities, through, 
inter alia, the provision of technical assistance and training to improve the 
processes and systems for the preparation of strategic plans and participatory 
municipal development plans. 
 
4. 
Strengthening of the procurement and financial management capacity of 
Municipalities, through, inter alia: (a) the provision of technical assistance and 
training to improve procurement practices, policies and procedures; and (b) the 
acquisition and utilization of equipment, including hardware and software. 
 
5. 
Strengthening of the disaster risk management capacity of  Municipalities, 
through, inter alia: (a) the evaluation of current risk management practices; (b) 
support the development of a national risk management policy, in coordination 
with the competent national authorities; and (c) the provision of technical 
assistance to  Municipalities in disaster risk reduction activities. 
 
 
-7- 
 
6. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of ISDEM and SSDT, through, inter 
alia, the design and implementation of strategies, plans, programs, institutional 
structures, rules, and procedures to respond to local needs and development.  
 
Part C: Decentralization Strategy Support 
 
1. 
Support for a national decentralization strategy for service provision, through, 
inter alia: (a) the evaluation of current rules, processes and procedures for said 
service provision; and (b) support for the development of a national 
decentralization strategy and plan to implement said strategy. 
 
Part D: Project Management 
 
1. 
Support to FISDL and ISDEM in the coordination and implementation of the 
Project, through, inter alia, the provision of technical assistance and training, and 
the acquisition and utilization of goods. 
 
2. 
Design and implementation of a Project communications strategy to support 
Project implementation. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance for the establishment of a Project monitoring and 
evaluation system. 
 
4. 
(a) Carrying out of technical studies to develop training models to support local 
public sector management, all as approved by the Bank; and (b) provision of 
technical assistance to carry out the audits referred to in Sections II.B.3 and V of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
(a)      For purposes of providing a Subproject Grant to any given Municipality, 
the Borrower shall: (i) through SAE, enter into an agreement with said 
Municipality (the Municipal Framework Agreement), under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, those 
set forth in Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) through 
MH, transfer said part of the proceeds of the Loan to any given 
Municipality for purposes of participating in the carrying out of Part A of 
the Project pursuant to said Municipal Framework Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through SAE, shall 
enter into an agreement with FISDL and ISDEM (the Implementation 
Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Bank which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Section II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
(i) The Borrower, through SAE, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Municipal Framework Agreement and the 
Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; 
and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Municipal 
Framework Agreement and/or the Implementation Agreement or any of 
their provisions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SSDT, shall establish, and thereafter maintain, throughout 
the implementation of the Project, an inter-institutional committee (the CI) with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual, for purposes of facilitating the effective coordination of the 
Project. 
 
B. 
Project Operational Manual 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAE, shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to 
be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of a manual satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Project Operational Manual), which shall include, inter alia, the 
following provisions: (a) the Project disbursement and procurement procedures; 
(b) the Environmental Management Framework and guidelines for the carrying 
 
-9- 
 
out of Municipal Subprojects; (c) the Resettlement Policy Framework; (d) the 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF); (e) Project impact and 
implementation indicators and the procedures for the monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project; (f) the eligibility criteria for  Municipalities to receive Subproject 
Grants; (g) the eligibility criteria and detailed procedures for the selection, 
approval, and implementation of Municipal Subprojects; (h) the format of: (A) the 
unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and (B) the Financial Statements; (i) a model Municipal 
Framework Agreement; (j) the terms of reference for carrying out the audits under 
Sections II.B.3 and V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (k) the Municipal 
Fiduciary Framework. 
 
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower, through SAE, shall not, and shall cause the Municipalities, FISDL and 
ISDEM not to, abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
Project Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Project Operational Manual, the 
Implementation Agreement, the Municipal Framework Agreements and this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
  
1. 
The Borrower, through SAE, shall ensure, and shall cause the Municipalities, 
FISDL and ISDEM to ensure, that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
 
D. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAE, shall ensure, and cause the Municipalities, FISDL 
and ISDEM to ensure, that the Project activities under their responsibility are 
carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management Framework, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Indigenous Peoples Planning 
Framework (IPPF). 
 
2. 
With respect to the assistance to be provided to Municipalities to prepare their 
municipal development plans under Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower, through 
SAE, shall, and shall cause ISDEM to ensure, that the terms of reference for said 
Project activities include a provision, satisfactory to the Bank, mandating that the 
Municipalities incorporate and/or cause to be incorporated the applicable Bank 
Safeguard Policies to said plans. 
 
 
-10- 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAE, shall cause ISDEM to monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare and furnish to the Bank Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project Operational Manual. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAE, shall, and shall cause FISDL and ISDEM to, 
maintain each a financial management system for the Parts of the Project under 
their responsibility, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through SAE, shall cause FISDL and ISDEM, to prepare, as part of the Project 
Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Parts of the Project under their 
responsibility, covering a calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. The Borrower, through SAE, shall cause ISDEM to furnish to the Bank 
consolidated interim reports, not later than forty five days after the end of each 
semester.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SAE, shall cause FISDL and ISDEM to, have their 
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) 
of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The Borrower, through SAE, shall 
cause FISDL and ISDEM to, each furnish to the Bank the pertinent consolidated 
audited Financial Statements for each such period not later than six months after 
the end of each such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
 
-11- 
 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured, and/or caused to be procured, in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured, and/or caused to be 
procured, in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I 
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
-12- 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least-Cost Based Selection 
(b) Quality-Based Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
  
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
-13- 
 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) Subproject Grants under 
Part A of the Project 
 
 
 
52,750,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, Non-Consultant 
 
Services, consultants’ 
services, Operating 
Costs, and Training 
under Part B of the 
Project 
           
23,800,019 
100% 
(3) Goods, Non-Consultant 
 
Services, consultants’ 
services, Operating 
Costs, and Training 
under Part C of the 
Project 
 
 
699,200 
100% 
(4) Goods, Non-Consultant 
 
services, consultants’ 
services, Operating 
Costs, and Training 
under Part D of the 
Project 
 
2,083,414 
100% 
(5) Front-end Fee 
 
200,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Unallocated 
 
467,367 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
80,000,000 
 
 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services and Non Consultant Services) for: (a) travel, room, board 
and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with 
their training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) 
training facility rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, 
reproduction and distribution expenses. 
 
 
-14- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made within one year prior to this date but on or after April 
21st, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30th, 2015 or any later date as the Bank may agree, 
and notify to the Borrower in writing. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
A. 
Other Audits 
 
1.       Pursuant to terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank, including, inter 
alia, the scope of the audits to be conducted and furnished to the Bank, and as 
further specified in the Project Operational Manual, the Borrower, through SAE, 
shall cause ISDEM, with the participation of FISDL, to: (a) not later than six 
months after each year of project implementation (starting with calendar year 
2010), carry out  annual operational audits of Part A of the Project; and (b) not 
later than six months after the end of the period covered by each such audit, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, acceptable to the Bank, integrating the 
results of said audits and setting out the measures to ensure the adequate and 
efficient carrying out of said Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.  
 
 
 
-15- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each August 15 and February 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2015  
 
through February 15, 2040 
 
 
 2 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
 
-16- 
 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals 
made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
 
-17- 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Terms and Conditions of the Municipal Framework Agreements and the 
Implementation Agreement 
 
Section I. Municipal Framework Agreement 
 
Each Municipal Framework Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following
 
provisions: 
 
A. 
the obligation of the Borrower, through SAE: 
 
(a) 
upon compliance by the Municipality with the conditions set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual, which conditions include, inter alia:  (i) the 
participation in a Municipal Training; (ii) the presentation to the 
Borrower, through SAE, of a list of potential Municipal Subprojects and 
its corresponding investment plan, acceptable to the Bank (which list and 
plan constitute an integral part of each Municipal Framework Agreement); 
and (iii) the opening  of a Restricted Account, make available, in 
coordination with MH, on a grant basis, a Subproject Grant to the 
corresponding  Municipality in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
comply with its obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement, as 
applicable to Part A of the Project; and 
 
(c) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the  pertinent Municipal Framework Agreement or any provision thereof, 
unless previously agreed by the Bank;  
 
B. 
the Borrower’s right, through SAE, to take remedial actions against the 
corresponding  Municipality in case it shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the Municipal Framework Agreement (which actions shall 
previously be agreed with the Bank); 
 
C. 
the  Municipality’s obligation to:  
 
(a)   
use the Subproject Grant as provided in the Loan Agreement;  
 
(b)   
prioritize Municipal Subprojects through a participatory planning process, 
according to the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual;  
 
 
-18- 
 
(c)   
upon approval of a given Municipal Subproject, establish and thereafter 
maintain throughout the Municipal Subproject implementation, a Citizen 
Control Committee with a structure, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to oversee 
the implementation of said Municipal Subproject, all as set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual;  
 
(d) 
upon approval of any given Municipal Subproject, according to the criteria 
and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual, carry out said 
Municipal Subproject with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity 
with 
appropriate 
administrative, 
technical, 
financial, 
economic, 
environmental and social standards and practices, and in accordance with 
the applicable provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Environmental 
Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and/or the 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework;  
 
(e) 
upon approval of a Municipal Subproject, and prior to the carry out of said 
Municipal Subproject: (i) carry out an environmental assessment of said 
Municipal Subproject, and prepare an environmental management plan (or 
similar environmental instrument), all acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) 
thereafter, to carry out or cause to be carried out said plan in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
(f) 
procure the goods, works, consultants’ services and/or Operating Costs in 
connection with the preparation and implementation of any given 
Municipal Subproject in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and under the supervision of 
FISDL;  
 
(g) 
ensure that the activities under Part A of the Project are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;  
 
(h) 
provide FISDL with the necessary information to prepare the interim 
unaudited financial reports for Part A of the Project; 
 
(i)   
provide the necessary information for the carrying out of the operational 
audits referred to in Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
 
(j)   
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (a) 
of the General Conditions; 
 
(k)  
once the pertinent Municipal Subproject has been carried out in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank, operate and maintain the investments supported 
under said Municipal Subproject, with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
 
-19- 
 
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, economic, 
environmental and social standards and practices, and the applicable 
provisions of this Agreement;  
 
(l)  
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the  pertinent Municipal Framework Agreement or any provision thereof, 
unless previously agreed by the Bank; and  
 
(m)  
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower, through 
SAE, FISDL and ISDEM to comply with their respective obligations 
referred to in this Agreement and/or in the Implementation Agreement, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II. Implementation Agreement 
 
The Implementation Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions: 
 
A. 
the obligation of the Borrower, through SAE: 
 
(a) 
to promptly disburse to ISDEM the proceeds of the Loan allocated to 
finance the carrying out of Parts B, C, and D of the Project; 
 
(b) 
with respect to the implementation of Part C of the Project, through SSDT, 
to assist ISDEM in the carrying out said Part C of the Project; 
 
(c) 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable FISDL and ISDEM to 
comply with their respective obligations under the Project as referred to in 
Section II.C and II.D of this Schedule, respectively; and 
 
(d) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof, unless previously 
agreed by the Bank; 
 
B. 
the right of the Borrower, through SAE, to take remedial actions against FISDL 
and/or ISDEM in case FISDL and/or ISDEM shall have failed to comply with any 
of their obligations under the Implementation Agreement (which actions shall 
previously be agreed with the Bank);  
 
C. 
the obligation of FISDL to: 
 
(a) 
(i) carry out activities under part D.1 of the Project pertaining to FISDL; 
and (ii) provide the necessary technical support to: (A) the Borrower, 
through SAE, in order to carry out Part A of the Project; and (B) ISDEM, 
in order to enable ISDEM to carry out Parts B and D.2, D.3, and D.4 of 
 
-20- 
 
the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and 
those set forth in the Project Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
with respect to the implementation of Part A of the Project: (i) develop a 
handbook to prepare, implement and supervise Municipal Subprojects; (ii) 
support ISDEM in providing the Municipal Training; (iii) certify 
compliance of conditions by any given  Municipality to become eligible to 
receive a Subproject Grant, under terms and conditions set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual; (iv) assist the  Municipalities in the  
preparation of Municipal Subprojects; (v) confirm the participatory 
planning process carried out by the  Municipalities to prioritize Municipal 
Subprojects; (vi) certify the establishment of  Citizen Control Committees; 
(vii) evaluate and approve Municipal Subprojects, in accordance with the 
criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual; (viii) 
approve the procurement plans for each  Municipality; (ix) validate that 
procurement provisions and procedures comply with the provisions of the 
Municipal Fiduciary Framework; (x) authorize any given  Municipality to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Subproject Grant pursuant to the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Project Operational Manual; (xi) assist the  
Municipalities in the implementation and supervision of Municipal 
Subprojects, including in the procurement and financial management 
requirements related to said Municipal Subprojects; (xii) supervise the 
application of the Environmental Management Framework, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Indigenous Peoples Planning 
Framework 
during 
Municipal 
Subprojects’ 
preparation 
and 
implementation; and (xiii) prepare and furnish to ISDEM the consolidated 
interim unaudited financial reports for  Municipalities; (xiv) coordinate 
with ISDEM the preparation of the terms of reference for the contracting 
of the operational audits referred to in Section V.A.1 of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement; and (xv) carry out its financial management obligations as 
referred to in  Section II.B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
to comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines in 
connection with the activities of the Project under its responsibility; 
 
(d) 
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (a) 
of the General Conditions; 
 
(e) 
have Financial Statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly thereafter furnish said statements as 
so audited to ISDEM;  
 
 
-21- 
 
(f) 
with respect to the implementation of the activities under part D.1 of the 
Project pertaining to FISDL, comply with its financial management and 
reporting obligations pursuant to Section II of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(g) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive, terminate, or fail 
to enforce the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof unless 
previously agreed with the Bank; and  
 
(h) 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower, through 
SAE, ISDEM and the Municipalities to comply with their respective 
obligations referred to in this Agreement, the Municipal Framework 
Agreements, and/or the Implementation Agreement, as the case may be.  
 
D. 
the obligation of ISDEM to: 
 
(a) 
(i) carry out Parts B, C, D.2, D.3, D.4 and the activities under part D.1 of 
the Project pertaining ISDEM; and (ii) provide the necessary technical 
support to the Borrower, through SAE, in order to carry out Part A of the 
Project, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and those 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
with respect to the implementation of Part A of the Project, to: (i) develop 
a handbook to prepare, implement and supervise Municipal Subprojects; 
(ii) provide the Municipal Training, with the assistance of FISDL; and (iii) 
support the establishment and functioning of the Citizen Control 
Committees.  
 
(c) 
transfer part of the proceeds of the Loan to FISDL to finance Operating 
Costs, for purposes of participating in the carrying out of Part D.1 of the 
Project; 
 
(d) 
(i) establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, an executing unit with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual; and (ii) ensure that said unit is, at all times during 
Project implementation, assisted by professional staff  (including, inter 
alia, a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist) and 
administrative staff, all in numbers and with terms of reference, and 
qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(e) 
coordinate the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;   
 
 
-22- 
 
(f) 
with respect to the implementation of Part B, C, and D of the Project, to 
carry out the procurement in accordance with Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement;  
 
(g) 
with respect to the implementation of Part B, C,  D.2, D.3, D.4 of the 
Project, and the activities under part D.1 of the Project pertaining ISDEM, 
to comply with its financial management and reporting obligations 
pursuant to Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
 
(h) 
for purposes of enabling the Borrower, through SAE, to comply with the 
obligation set forth in Section V: (i) coordinate with FISDL the 
preparation of the terms of reference for said audits; and (ii) hire an 
independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, according to the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual;  
 
(i) 
comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines in 
connection with the activities of the Project under its responsibility; 
 
(j) 
ensure that any activity under Parts B, C, D.2, D.3, D.4 of the Project, and 
the activities under part D.1 of the Project pertaining ISDEM is carried out 
in accordance with the pertinent provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, including the Project Operational Manual, the Indigenous 
Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF), the Environmental Management 
Framework, and the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
 
(k) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive, terminate, or fail 
to enforce the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof unless 
previously agreed by the Bank; and  
 
(l) 
take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower, through 
SAE, FISDL and the Municipalities to comply with their respective 
obligations referred to in this Agreement, the Municipal Framework 
Agreements and/or the Implementation Agreement, as the case may be.  
  
 
-23- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Bank Safeguard Policies” means  the Bank’s operational policies and procedures 
set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under 
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“CI” means the inter-institutional committee referred to in Section I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with the structure, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Project Operational Manual. 
   
5. 
“Citizen Control Committee” means any of the committees referred to in Section 
I. C. (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, composed of community members for 
the purpose of monitoring the implementation of the Municipal Subproject, all 
under terms and conditions set forth in the Project Operational Manual.  
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s framework, 
acceptable to the Bank, dated April 16, 2010, and included in the Operational 
Manual which sets forth the necessary procedures/actions to be undertaken by the 
Borrower and/or the Municipalities to avoid, minimize or mitigate any potential 
negative environmental impact under Municipal Subprojects. 
 
8. 
“FISDL” means Fondo de Inversión Social para el Desarrollo Local de El 
Salvador, the Borrower’s Social Investment Fund for Local Development.  
 
9. 
 “FISDL Legislation” means Ley de Creación de Inversión Social, the Borrower’s 
Legislative Decree No. 610 dated October 31, 1990 (duly published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on November 16, 1990), as amended by the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 826 dated September 19, 1996 (duly published in the 
Borrower’s official Gazette on October 2, 1996). 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
 
-24- 
 
through February 12, 2008 and as further modified pursuant to Section II of this 
Appendix).  
 
11. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 
(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
12. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the Borrower’s 
framework, dated April 12, 2010, acceptable to the Bank, which sets forth: (a) the 
necessary procedures to ensure that the principles outlined under the Bank’s 
operational policy and procedures OP/BP 4.10 (i.e. screening, social assessment, 
consultation and participation, etc.) are taken into account during Project 
preparation and implementation; and (b) the principles and objectives governing 
the preparation and implementation of indigenous plans. 
 
13. 
“ISDEM” means Instituto Salvadoreño de Desarrollo Municipal, the Borrower’s 
Institute for Municipal Development.  
 
14. 
“ISDEM Legislation” means Ley Orgánica del Instituto Salvadoreño de 
Desarrollo Municipal, the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 616 dated March 4, 
1987 (duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on March 17, 1987). 
 
15. 
“MH” means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Finance Ministry.  
 
16. 
“Municipal Administrative Career Law” means Ley de la Carrera Administrativa 
Municipal, the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 1039 dated May 26, 2006 (duly 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 6, 2006), as amended by the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 601 dated April 10, 2008 (duly published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 15, 2008), and the Borrower’s Decree No. 20 
dated May 20, 2009 (duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 
11, 2009). 
 
17. 
“Municipal Fiduciary Framework” means the Borrower’s framework dated April 
26, 2010, acceptable to the Bank, establishing the criteria, norms and procedures 
governing the use of Subproject Grants and counterpart funds transferred to 
Municipalities for purposes of carrying out Municipal Subprojects under Part A of 
the Project. 
 
18. 
“Municipal Framework Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section I. A. (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
19. 
“Municipal Subproject” means any investment activity proposed by a 
Municipality in the sanitation and waste, potable water, rural roads and electricity 
sectors, and/or any other investment of similar nature selected in accordance with 
terms and conditions specified in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
 
-25- 
 
20. 
“Municipal Training” means the training activities under Part B.1 of the Project 
that will be provided to the Municipalities on, inter alia: (a) Bank’s rules and 
procedures relevant for the implementation of the Project, including the 
application of Bank’s Safeguard Policies, Procurement Guidelines, and Financial 
Management Guidelines; and (b) the implementation of the Municipal Fiduciary 
Framework.   
 
21. 
“Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s municipalities (Municipio), which 
meets the selection criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
22. 
“Non-consultant Services” means services which will be bid and contracted on 
the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs, such as the logistical 
service expenses for capacity building events, printing of training materials and 
media campaigns. 
 
23. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project 
implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration costs, 
utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs of locally contracted employees. 
 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan prepared by ISDEM for Parts B, 
C and D of the Project, dated April 22, 2010, and the procurement plans prepared 
by each Municipality and approved by FISDL for Part A of the Project, and 
referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of 
the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
 
26. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual dated April 26, 2010, 
satisfactory to the Bank, referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with agreement of the 
Bank. 
 
27. 
“Restricted Account” means the separate account to be opened by each 
Municipality in a financial institution, designated by MH, acceptable to the Bank, 
and under terms and conditions set forth in the Project Operational Manual, for 
purposes of depositing the proceeds of the Subproject Grants, which funds will be 
withdrawn by said Municipality upon FISDL’s approval and certification that all 
conditions for each withdrawal have been met by the pertinent Municipality.  
 
28. 
“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the 
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
 
-26- 
 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently. 
 
29. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s framework dated April 
7th, 2010, acceptable to the Bank which sets forth, inter alia, the principles and 
objectives governing the preparation and implementation of Resettlement plans, 
and a description of the process for preparing and approving said plans under Part 
A of the Project.  
 
30. 
“SAE” means Secretaría para Asuntos Estratégicos de la Presidencia, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat for Strategic Affairs.  
 
31. 
“SSDT” means Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Territorial y Desentralización, the 
Borrower’s Subsecretariat for Territorial Development and Decentralization, or 
any other successor thereto.  
 
32. 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan to a 
Municipality to finance goods, works, consultants’ services and/or Operating 
Costs in connection with the preparation and implementation of one or more 
Municipal Subprojects. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Bank (“Preparation 
Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan 
Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the 
withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such 
withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn 
to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall cancel the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
 
-27- 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Bank has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole 
or in part by the Bank or the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Bank or 
the Bank that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of 
the proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date 
(as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and 
accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as 
further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
