 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7861-AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Road Safety Project – Phase I) 
 
 
between 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7861-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement, as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan 
Agreement), between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower 
and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
- 2 - 
 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of 
the Interior, shall cause ANSV to carry out the Project with the assistance of: (a) 
Eligible NGOs under Part 1.B(iv) of the Project pursuant to the terms of the 
corresponding CAE Grant Agreement; and (b) Participating Provinces and 
Participating Municipalities under Part 2.B of the Project, pursuant to the terms 
of the corresponding RSI Participation Agreement, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, acting 
within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall ensure that the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
That ANSV shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
(b) 
That ANSV’s Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed, not enforced or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of ANSV to perform 
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the parties 
thereto. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
ANSV, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ANSV in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after Signature Date, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire 
on October 6, 2011.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.   
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
MINISTERIO  
DE ECONOMIA 
121942-AR 
 
(5411) 4349-8815 
 
Baires 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
 
AGREED at Washington, D.C., United States of America, on behalf of the Bank on May 
28, 2010 and at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Borrower on June 11, 2010. 
 
 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/Amado Boudou 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
     
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Stefan Koeberle 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the reduction of road traffic 
injuries and fatalities in the Borrower’s territory through the strengthening of the 
Borrower’s institutional framework and management capacity for road safety, as well as 
to the reduction of crashes in selected pilot corridors. 
 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part 1 Institutional Capacity Building 
 
A. 
Provision of equipment and technical assistance to ANSV with the objective of 
adopting best practices in international road safety through, inter alia: (i) the 
creation of a national driver license registry system; (ii) the creation of a national 
traffic records and infractions registry system; and (iii) the preparation of 
ANSV’s Strategic Plan. 
 
B. 
Provision of support to ANSV, Eligible NGOs and private sector entities with a 
view to improving public awareness and sensitization on road safety issues, 
through inter alia: (i) the development and implementation of a plan for national 
social communications and education campaigns; (ii) the development of road 
safety education kits for teachers, students and the general population; (iii) the 
provision of assistance for the design, evaluation and implementation of social 
communication and educational campaigns, through different mass media; (iv) 
the provision of CAE Grants to Eligible NGOs for the carrying out of NGO CAE 
Subprojects; (v) the non-pecuniary support to corporate social responsibility 
initiatives, such as identification of best practices and their dissemination; and 
(vi) the provision of training and the carrying out of workshops and educational 
seminars related to road safety. 
 
C. 
Provision of technical assistance to improve the Borrower’s response capacity to 
emergencies and the development of an effective trauma and medical services 
system, through inter alia: (i) the carrying out of diagnosis of current capabilities 
and protocols of the Borrower’s emergency services to road crashes on national 
roads; (ii) design of action plans, improved protocols and guidelines for 
emergency response; (iii) design and implementation of improvements in 
emergency coordination systems amongst concerned agencies (e.g. police, 
ambulance services, hospitals, insurance companies); (iv) training for emergency 
response personnel; and (v) acquisition of equipment to facilitate the work of 
road crash emergency personnel, including communications equipment, aimed at 
enhancing emergency response capability. 
 
- 7 - 
 
D. 
Enhancement of the regulatory framework and traffic enforcement capabilities of 
the ANSV and other traffic control institutions, through: (i) the delivery of 
training modules acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the acquisition of alcoholmeters, 
speed control radar guns, cinemometers, and other fixed or mobile radar 
technology; and (iii) the development of a national plan for speed control, 
including the implementation of speed controls, radar and photo recording 
systems, all for the exclusive use of traffic control. 
 
E. 
Carrying out of supervision activities and provision of support directed to 
ensuring adequate Project management, including the carrying out of audits for 
the Project. 
 
Part 2 Demonstration Corridors and Incentive Fund Program 
 
A. 
Development and implementation of a comprehensive, integrated road safety 
program along the Selected High-Risk Corridors, including inter alia: (i) the 
provision of support for the implementation of pilot interventions aimed at 
improving the safety of road infrastructure and operations; (ii) improvement of 
road safety awareness through the carrying out of education and social 
communication campaigns; (iii) acquisition of technological equipment to 
support better driving conducts; and (iv) support to improve emergency and post-
crash response activities. 
 
B. 
The provision, through an incentive fund program organized within ANSV, of 
RSI Reimbursable Costs for the carrying out of RSIs with the goal of improving 
road safety policies and conditions.  
 
Part 3 Monitoring and Evaluation through the National Road Safety Observatory 
 
A. 
Development and promotion of the National Road Safety Observatory through, 
inter alia, the provision of support to strengthen: (i) Road safety information 
systems in the National Registry of Road Safety Statistics; (ii) road monitoring 
systems (including the design and development of a crash management system); 
(iii) road crash data collection and reporting systems; (iv) coordination among 
the National Road Safety Observatory and IRTAD; (v) monitoring and 
evaluation capabilities of ANSV; (vi) quality control audits of national road crash 
data; and (vii) road crash research studies relevant to the National Road Safety 
Observatory. 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements 
 
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement   
  
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and for 
purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the 
Loan available to ANSV under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary 
Agreement) to be entered into by and between the Borrower, through its Ministry 
of Economy and Public Finance, and ANSV, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 
4 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
 
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Subsidiary Agreement and those 
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
B. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to operate and maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a 
Project coordinating unit (the UCP) with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility of 
the UCP to assist ANSV in the coordination, monitoring and supervision of the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to ensure that the UCP is, at all times during Project implementation, 
headed by a general coordinator and assisted by other adequate professional staff 
(with expertise in administrative, procurement and financial management 
matters) and administrative staff, all with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to, prior to the commencement of each calendar year during Project 
implementation, starting in 2011, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each 
- 9 - 
 
said calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in the 
relevant annual budget in order to keep track of the corresponding expenditures 
incurred during Project implementation. 
 
C. 
Operational Manual and Safeguards 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, acting within the sphere of the 
Ministry of the Interior, shall cause ANSV to carry out the Project in accordance 
with a manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, which shall set 
forth, inter alia:  
 
(a) 
(i) the criteria for the selection of Eligible NGOs under Part 1.B (iv) of 
the Project; (ii) the mechanisms, rules and eligibility criteria required for 
the provision of CAE Grants and other incentives under Part 1.B (iv) of 
the Project; (iii) the technical, environmental, social and operational rules 
applicable to the carrying out of NGO CAE Subprojects under Part 1.B 
(iv) of the Project; (iv) a model CAE Grant Agreement; 
 
(b) 
(i) the rules, terms and conditions for the setting up and operation of an 
incentive fund to provide RSI Reimbursable Costs under Part 2.B of the 
Project; (ii) the criteria, terms and conditions for the involvement of 
Participating Provinces and/or Participating Municipalities in the Project 
activities under Part 2.B of the Project; (iii) the mechanisms, rules, 
reimbursement limits, adjustment methodology, supervision guidelines 
and further operational requirements needed for the carrying out of RSIs 
and the provision of RSI Reimbursable Costs under Part 2.B of the 
Project; (iv) the technical, environmental, social and operational rules 
applicable to the carrying out of RSIs under Part 2.B of the Project; (v) 
the terms of reference for carrying out the concurrent audits under Part 
2.B of the Project, as referred to under Section II.B.4 of this Schedule; 
and (vi) a model RSI Participation Agreement; 
 
(c) 
(i) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal  
controls; (ii) the format 
of the unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of 
this Schedule; (iii) the format of the Financial Statements; (iv) the terms 
of reference for carrying out Project audits under Section II.B.3 of this 
Schedule; (v) the Project monitoring indicators; (vi) the Project flow of 
funds structure, disbursement and procurement procedures; (vii) the 
institutional and administrative structure of the ANSV and the UCP 
directly in charge of Project implementation, including their functions 
and responsibilities; 
 
(d) 
the Environmental and Social Management Plan; 
 
- 10 - 
 
(e) 
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework;  
 
(f) 
the Indigenous Peoples Plans; and 
 
(g) 
the Resettlement Framework. 
 
2. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
Prior to the commencement of any proposed civil works to be included as part of 
an RSI under Part 2.B of the Project, the Borrower, acting within the sphere of 
the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause ANSV to ensure that the relevant 
Participating Province or Participating Municipality, as the case may be, applies 
the Environmental and Social Management Plan, in order to: 
 
(a) 
carry out an environmental screening and assessment of such proposed 
civil works, as prescribed in the Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
prepare the relevant Environmental Impact Assessments/Environmental 
Management Plans, as necessary; and 
 
(c) 
include in each Environmental Management Plan, as necessary, the 
provisions for the prevention, mitigation and remediation of any potential 
environmental damage arising from the implementation of such proposed 
civil works. 
 
4. 
During the implementation of any civil works as part of an RSI under Part 2.B of 
the Project, the Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, 
shall cause ANSV to ensure that the respective Participating Province or 
Participating Municipality applies the provisions of the relevant Environmental 
Management Plan referred to in subparagraph 3 (c) above. 
 
5. 
In the event that any given activity under the Project may affect an indigenous 
group, the Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall 
cause ANSV, prior to the carrying out of any said activity, to prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank through ANSV: (a) 
an indigenous peoples plan, acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall be prepared 
in accordance with the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework) in respect of said 
Project activity; and (b) thereafter implement and/or cause to be implemented said 
plan in accordance with its terms. 
 
6. 
In the event that any given activity under Part 2.B of the Project causes 
Resettlement, the Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the 
Interior, shall cause ANSV, prior to the commencement of said activity, to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, or cause the pertinent Participating Province or  
- 11 - 
 
Participating Municipality to prepare and furnish to the Bank through ANSV: (a) a 
Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall be prepared in 
accordance with the Resettlement Framework) in respect of said Project activity; 
and (b) thereafter implement and/or cause to be implemented said plan in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause ANSV to ensure, that the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
E. 
CAE Grants and NGO CAE Subprojects 
 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 1.B (iv) of the Project, the Borrower, acting 
within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause ANSV to approve 
NGO CAE Subprojects and, if applicable, to provide CAE Grants to the pertinent 
Eligible NGOs to finance the carrying out of approved NGO CAE Subprojects, 
in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and 
pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth to that effect in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to provide each CAE Grant under a CAE Grant Agreement to be entered 
into by ANSV with the respective Eligible NGO, setting forth the technical, 
financial, administrative, safeguard and fiduciary aspects of the participation in 
the implementation and use of funds under Part 1.B(iv) of the Project, on terms 
and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, those set 
forth in the Operational Manual and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each CAE Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, ANSV shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any CAE 
Grant Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
4. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of each CAE Grant Agreement and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
F. 
Road Safety Interventions (RSIs)  
 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out RSIs under Part 2.B of the Project, the 
Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to enter into an agreement (each, a RSI Participation Agreement) with 
each Participating Province or Participating Municipality, setting forth the 
- 12 - 
 
technical, financial, administrative, safeguard and fiduciary aspects of the 
participation in the implementation and use of funds of Part 2.B of the Project, on 
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, those set forth 
in the Operational Manual and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each RSI 
Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, ANSV shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any RSI Participation Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of each RSI Participation Agreement 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to provide RSI Reimbursable Costs to Provinces and/or Municipalities, 
only after each such Province or Municipality has fulfilled the requirements set 
forth in the Operational Manual in order to become a Participating Province or 
Participating Municipality. The provision of RSI Reimbursable Costs shall be 
made in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and those set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to: (a) review jointly with the Bank and not later than 12 months after the 
Effective Date and yearly thereafter, the RSI Reimbursable Costs and the 
composition of eligible output activities included in the Road Safety 
Interventions List; and (b) immediately thereafter adjust them as necessary, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project, and prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to maintain a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause ANSV to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period.  
 
4. 
Pursuant to terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank, including inter 
alia the scope and period of the audits to be conducted and furnished to the Bank, 
and as further specified in the Operational Manual, the Borrower, acting within 
the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause ANSV to contract 
independent technical auditors acceptable to the Bank for the carrying out of 
audits on Project activities under Part 2.B of the Project. 
  
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services. All goods, works and Non-
consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
- 14 - 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
 
Services  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Non-consultant Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Community Participation under Section 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth for this method in the Operational 
Manual  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Consultants Qualifications Selection 
(c) Single Source Selection 
(d) Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
 
E. 
Special Provisions  
 
 
The following special procurement provisions shall apply to procurement under 
the Project: 
 
General 
 
1. 
All procurement shall be done using standard bidding documents, standard 
requests for proposals, model bid evaluation forms, model proposal evaluation 
forms and contract forms previously agreed with the Bank.  
 
2. 
Bidding 
documents 
for 
National 
Competitive 
Bidding 
shall 
include 
anticorruption clauses as required by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and 
acceptable to the Bank, including those that give the Bank audit rights over 
bidders, suppliers, contractors and consultants. These clauses shall be 
substantially identical to those pertaining to the Bank Standard Bidding 
Documents for International Competitive Bidding.  
 
3. 
For consultant services contracts, only the types of contracts listed in Section IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines may be used, and “Convenios” will not be 
permitted. 
 
4. 
Foreign and local contractors, service providers, consultants and suppliers shall 
not be required:  
 
(a) 
to register;  
 
(b) 
establish residence in the Argentine Republic; or  
 
(c) 
enter into association with other national or international bidders as a 
condition for submitting bids or proposals. 
 
5. 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid opening, requests for 
expressions of interest and notifications of contract award of all processes aimed 
at the procurement of goods and services (including consultants’ services), as the 
case may be, shall be published in the web page of Oficina Nacional de 
Contrataciones in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, acting within the sphere of the Ministry of the Interior, shall cause 
ANSV to:  
 
(a) 
feed the Bank publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System 
(SEPA) within 30 days of Loan approval with the information contained 
in the initial Procurement Plan; and  
 
- 16 - 
 
(b) 
update the Procurement Plan at least every quarter or as needed to reflect 
the actual Project implementation needs and progress and will feed the 
Bank Procurement Plans Execution System (SEPA) with the information 
contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
 
7. 
Bidders and consultants shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other 
bidders’ bids or consultants’ proposals, as the case may be. 
 
Goods and Non-consultant Services  
 
1. 
A two-envelope system of procurement will not be used for the procurement of 
goods or services (other than consultants’ services). 
 
2. 
Contracts of goods and services, other than consulting services, shall not be 
awarded to the “most convenient” bid but to the one that has been determined to 
be substantially responsive and the lowest evaluated bid, provided that further the 
bidder is determined to be qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily. 
 
3. 
Compliance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
standards shall not be required to foreign bidders.  
 
4. 
Minimum terms for submitting bids and quotations shall be the following: (a) 30 
days for NCB processes amounting to $80,000 and above; (b) 15 days for NCB 
processes amounting to $20,000 and above; and (c) 10 days for Shopping 
procedures amounting to $3,000 and above.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 17 - 
 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 (inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1)  Goods, works and 
 
Non-consultant Services 
  
 
12,560,000 
 
80% 
(2) CAE Grants  
 
 
1,000,000 
100% 
(3)  Consultants’ services 
 
and audits 
 
 
 
5,200,000 
 
100% 
(4) RSI Reimbursable Costs 
 
10,000,000 
100% adjustable pursuant to 
Section I.F.5 of this Schedule 
 
(5) Training  
 
965,000 
 
100% 
(6) Operating Costs  
 
 
200,000 
100% 
(7) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Collars 
 
0 
Amounts payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 
(8) Front-end Fee 
 
75,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
30,000,000 
 
 
For purposes of this table: 
 
(a)  
“Training” means the reasonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower for the 
carrying out of training activities under the Project, including, inter alia, 
reasonable costs of travel, subsistence, rental of training facilities, and per diem 
for trainers and trainees, registration fees and training materials; 
 
(b) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including, inter 
alia, office supplies, insurance, communication expenses, equipment, computer 
operation and maintenance, supervision costs, travel and per diem. 
 
- 18 - 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made within one year prior to the Signature Date but 
on or after June 1, 2009 for Eligible Expenditures;  
 
(b) 
under Category (2) unless the relevant Eligible NGO has met the criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual to receive CAE Grants and the 
corresponding CAE Grant Agreement has been signed by the respective 
parties thereto; or 
 
(c) 
for payments made to provide RSI Reimbursable Costs under Category 
(4) unless: (i) ANSV has duly established the incentive fund program 
under Part 2.B of the Project, under terms and operating conditions 
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the relevant Province or Municipality has 
met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to become a 
Participating Province or Participating Municipality, which criteria shall 
include, inter alia, that the corresponding RSI Participation Agreement 
has been signed by the respective parties thereto. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is August 30, 2015. 
 
- 19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2015  
 
through February 15, 2040 
 
2.0% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
- 20 - 
 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 21 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
 
 
 
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement, 
CAE Grant Agreements and RSI Participation Agreements 
 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
The Subsidiary Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions: 
 
A. 
The obligation of the Borrower: 
 
1. 
to promptly disburse to ANSV the proceeds of the Loan in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank;  
 
2. 
to ensure that ANSV carries out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and 
 
3. 
with respect to Part 1.B (iv) and Part 2.B of the Project, to cause ANSV 
to ensure that: (a) the Eligible NGOs in respect of Part 1.B (iv) of the 
Project; and (b) the Participating Provinces and Participating 
Municipalities in respect of Part 2.B of the Project, comply with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
 
B. 
The right of the Borrower to take remedial actions against ANSV in case ANSV 
 
shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
 
Agreement (which actions may include, inter alia, the partial or total suspension 
 
and/or cancellation of the Loan proceeds (as the case may be), all as previously 
 
agreed with the Bank). 
 
C. 
The obligation of ANSV: 
 
1. 
to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, 
environmental, social and cultural property practices, including those 
contained in the Operational Manual; 
 
2. 
to provide the counterpart funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to carry out the Project;  
 
3. 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by, for example, allowing Bank 
inspection and audit rights under paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines);  
- 22 - 
 
4. 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof, unless previously 
agreed with the Bank;  
 
5. 
if applicable, to comply, or cause to be complied, with the obligations 
referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.10 and 5.11 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, land acquisition, use of goods, 
works and services, maintenance of facilities, plans, documents and 
records, cooperation and consultation and visits, respectively) in respect 
of the Project; and 
 
6. 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligations set forth in Sections 3.01 and Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement in respect of the carrying out of the Project by ANSV. 
 
Section II. 
CAE Grant Agreements 
 
The CAE Grant Agreements shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions: 
 
A. 
The obligation of ANSV: 
 
1. 
to promptly disburse to each Eligible NGO the proceeds of the CAE 
Grant in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2. 
to ensure that each Eligible NGO carries out the respective NGO CAE 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines (by, for example, allowing Bank inspection and audit rights 
under paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines). 
 
B. 
The right of ANSV to suspend or terminate the right of the respective Eligible 
 
NGO to use the proceeds of the CAE Grant, or to obtain a refund of all or any 
 
part of the amount of the CAE Grant then withdrawn, upon the Eligible NGO’s 
 
failure to perform any of its obligations under the CAE Grant Agreement.  
 
C. 
The obligation of each Eligible NGO to:  
 
1. 
Carry out its NGO CAE Subproject with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, 
environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the 
Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of 
loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and to provide, promptly as 
needed, the resources required for this purpose;  
 
 
- 23 - 
 
2. 
procure the goods and services to be financed out of the CAE Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and those of the 
Operational Manual;  
 
3. 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
progress of the NGO CAE Subproject and the achievement of its 
objectives;  
 
4. 
prepare and furnish to the ANSV and the Bank, through the Borrower, all 
such information as ANSV or the Bank shall reasonably request related 
to its participation in Project; and 
 
5. 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the relevant CAE Grant Agreement or any provision thereof without the 
prior no objection of ANSV and the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
RSI Participation Agreements 
 
The RSI Participation Agreements shall contain, inter alia, the following  provisions: 
 
A. 
The obligation of ANSV: 
 
1. 
to promptly provide to the respective Participating Province or 
Participating Municipality (as the case may be) the applicable RSI 
Reimbursable Costs in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2. 
to ensure that each Participating Province or Participating Municipality 
(as the case may be) carries out the respective RSI in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by, for example, allowing 
Bank inspection and audit rights under paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines). 
 
B. 
The right of ANSV to take remedial actions against the Participating Province or 
Participating Municipality (as the case may be) in case any such Participating 
Province or Participating Municipality shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the respective RSI Participation Agreement. 
 
C. 
The obligation of the Participating Provinces and/or Participating Municipalities 
to: 
 
1. 
Upon the execution of each respective RSI Participation Agreement, and 
every calendar year thereafter, as necessary, enter into a performance 
agreement with ANSV (the Annual Performance Agreement), acceptable 
to the Bank and substantively reflecting the form and substance 
- 24 - 
 
described in the Operational Manual, setting forth annual targets, work 
programs and resource requirements for the implementation of Part 2.B 
of the Project;  
 
2. 
carry out RSIs with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and 
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in 
accordance with the Operational Manual and the pertinent provisions of 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower, and to provide, promptly as needed, the 
resources required for this purpose;  
 
 
3. 
when applicable in accordance with the provisions of the IPPF, the 
ESMP and/or the Resettlement Framework, to carry out and implement, 
respectively, the applicable Indigenous Peoples Plan, Environmental 
Management Plan/Environmental Impact Assessment and/or the 
Resettlement Action Plan in accordance with its terms; 
 
4. 
procure any goods, works and services necessary for the carrying out of 
the respective RSI in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement 
and those of the Operational Manual;  
 
5. 
take all necessary actions to enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement, including those set forth or referred to 
in the General Conditions, in respect of the carrying out of the Project as 
it may apply to the assistance provided by the respective Participating 
Province and/or Participating Municipality;  
 
6. 
prepare and furnish to the ANSV and the Bank, through the Borrower, all 
such information as ANSV or the Bank shall reasonably request related 
to its participation in Project; and 
 
7. 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the relevant RSI Participation Agreement or any provision thereof 
without the prior no objection of ANSV and the Bank. 
 
- 25 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“ANSV” means Agencia Nacional de Seguridad Vial, the Borrower’s National 
Agency for Road Safety, a decentralized organism within the sphere of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Interior, with economic and financial autarchy, as 
well as legal personality, constituted as such by the Borrower’s Law 26.363 of 
April 29, 2008. 
 
2. 
“ANSV’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Law 26.363 of April 29, 2008, and 
the Decree No. 1787/2008 of November 5, 2008.  
 
3. 
“ANSV’s Strategic Plan” means Plan Estratégico 2010-2015, ANSV’s plan 
setting forth measures and guidelines for strategic ANSV’s actions for years 
2010-2015, on the area of road safety. 
 
4. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
5. 
“CAE Grant” means any communication, awareness or educational grant made 
or proposed to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Eligible NGO, to 
finance a given NGO CAE Subproject.  
 
6. 
“CAE Grant Agreement” means each of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Eligible NGO” means a non-governmental organization which meets the criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual to carry out an NGO CAE Subproject and 
participate in the Project activities referred to in Part 1.B (iv) of the Project. 
 
10. 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means any of the environmental assessment 
studies prepared by the Borrower, or ANSV, or any Participating Province or 
Participating Municipality, in accordance with the ESMP, for the carrying out of 
RSIs. 
 
- 26 - 
 
11. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means any of the plans, acceptable to the 
Bank, that may be completed during the implementation of the Project and in the 
carrying out of RSIs under Part 2.B thereof, in accordance with the ESMP, and 
which may be amended from time to time with the prior no objection from the 
Bank. 
 
12. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the Borrower’s 
environmental and social framework for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, 
dated February 11, 2010 that contains specific environmental and social 
procedures for Project implementation, including inter alia, the environmental 
and social guidelines and procedures applicable to Project activities and to the 
carrying out of RSIs and NGO CAE Subprojects. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
14. 
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means any of the plans that may be 
completed during the implementation of the Project, which shall follow the 
relevant provisions contained to that effect in the IPPF, and which may be 
amended from time to time with the prior no objection from the Bank. 
 
15. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the framework 
dated February 8, 2010 acceptable to the Bank, which framework includes, inter 
alia, the principles, objectives, methodology and the contents to be included in 
each IPP. 
 
16. 
“IRTAD” means International Road Traffic Accident Database, a database 
managed by OECD and the International Transport Forum in Paris, covering road 
safety data in countries within and outside of Europe.  
 
17. 
“Municipality” means a political sub-division within any of the Borrower 
Provinces. 
 
18. 
“National Registry of Road Safety Statistics” means Registro Nacional de 
Estadísticas en Seguridad Vial, the Borrower’s registry in charge of gathering 
information related to road crashes, as established by ANSV’s Legislation.  
 
19. 
“National Road Safety Observatory” means Observatorio de Seguridad Vial, the 
Borrower’s observatory established by ANSV’s Legislation, in charge of 
performing assessments on causes and consequences of road crashes, as well as 
to formulate possible preventive measures to be taken in the field of road safety. 
 
- 27 - 
 
20. 
“NGO CAE Subproject” means an activity in the area of communications, 
awareness or education related to road safety, to be financed partly or totally by a 
CAE Grant, and that complies with the eligibility and operational criteria set 
forth to that effect in the Operational Manual. 
 
21. 
“Non-consultant Services” means logistical service expenses for capacity-
building events, printing of training materials and media campaigns, as well as 
other services which are not rendered by consultants, obtained at reasonable cost 
on account of Project implementation and which are not covered in the 
definitions of Training and/or Operating Costs. 
 
22. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated February 16, 2010 as the same 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
 
23. 
“Participating Municipality” means a Municipality which meets the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual to carry out RSIs. 
 
24. 
“Participating Province” means a Province which meets the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual to carry out RSIs. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
26. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 16, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
27. 
“Program” means the program designed to drastically reduce the number of 
deaths and serious injuries due to road crashes in the Borrower’s road network, 
and set forth or referred to in the letter dated February 15, 2010 from the 
Borrower to the Bank. 
 
28. 
“Province” means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the 
Borrower’s Constitution, and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires.  
 
29. 
“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the 
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
- 28 - 
 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently. 
 
30. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the resettlement plans, acceptable to the Bank, 
that may be completed during the implementation of the Project, which shall 
follow the relevant provisions contained in the Resettlement Framework and 
which may be amended from time to time with the prior no objection from the 
Bank. 
 
31. 
“Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower's framework published on 
February 
8, 
2010 
and 
available 
to 
the 
public 
on 
the 
website 
www.mininterior.gov.ar/ansv, outlining implementation procedures, mitigation 
measures and monitoring procedures in relation to any Resettlement (as defined 
below) under the Project; said framework may be amended from time to time 
with the Bank's prior approval. 
 
32. 
“Road Safety Interventions List” means the positive list of eligible RSIs (as 
defined below) included in the Operational Manual, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
33. 
“RSI” or “Road Safety Intervention” means any of the output-based activities 
included in the Road Safety Interventions List, aimed at improving road safety 
policies and conditions. 
 
34. 
“RSI Participation Agreement” means each of the agreements referred to in 
Section I.F.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
35. 
“RSI Reimbursable Cost” means an average of the operating and investment 
costs required for implementing each one of the RSIs, including inter alia the 
costs of inputs, human resources, supplies and use of equipment, to be 
reimbursed by ANSV to the respective Participating Province or Participating 
Municipality (as the case may be) pursuant to the pertinent provisions of the 
Operational Manual, as such cost may be adjusted from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank as provided for in Section I.F.5 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
 
36. 
“Selected High-Risk Road Corridors” means any of the road segments under the 
Borrower’s jurisdiction listed in the Operational Manual. 
 
37. 
“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and 
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applied to all references 
to “the date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.  
 
- 29 - 
 
38. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to ANSV, as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
39. 
“UCP” means Unidad de Coordinación de Proyecto, the Project coordinating 
unit within ANSV referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
