FFI IAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 7820-BR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Sao Paulo Trains and Signaling Project
Modernizaga"o da Linha 11— Coral da CPTM)
between
STATE OF SAO PAULO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 6	
r 29 , 2010
pis
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7820-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated October 18, 2010, between the STATE OF SAO PAULO
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS: (A) by an agreement dated June 12, 2008 between the Borrower and
the Bank (the Original Loan Agreement), the Bank made a loan (Loan N° 7506-BR) to
the Borrower in an amount equal to five hundred fifty million Dollars ($550,000,000)
(the Original Loan) to assist in the financing of Sao Paulo Trains and Signaling Project
on terms and conditions set forth in the Original Loan Agreement; and
(B)	
the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
costs associated with scaled—up activities not covered by the Original Loan, as described
in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.	
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H— LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twelve million and nine
hundred ten thousand Dollars ($112,910,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
Project.
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Secretario dos Transporles Metropolitanos.
-2-
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General
Conditions.
2.05. The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
	
2.07. (a)	
The Borrower may (having obtained in each case prior no-objection
issued by the STN) request, at any time, any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
BIB
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III — PROJECT
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause CPTM to carry out the Project, under the
coordination of STM, and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions, and the Project Agreement.
	
3.02.	
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
	4.01.	
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
CPTM.
4.02. The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a)
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CPTM
and is legally binding upon CPTM in accordance with its terms.
(b)
The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank.
	
4.03.	
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on March 21, 2012.
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. Except for the purposes of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Governor.
-4-
5.02. The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria da Fazenda (For purposes of Project-related financial matters)
Avenida Range! 300 — 5 0 andar
Sao Paulo — SP
CEP: 01017-911
Facsimile: (55-11) 3243-3296
Secretaria dos Transportes Metropolitanos — STM (For purposes of Project-
related financial matters and overall Project execution)
Rua Boa Vista 175 Bloco B — 10 ° Andar
Sao Paulo — SP
CEP: 01 014-001
Facsimile: (55-11) 3291-2191; 3291-2110
Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos — CPTM (For purposes of all
Project-related correspondence)
Rua Boa Vista 175 Bloco A —9° Andar
Sao Paulo — SP
CEP: 01 014-001
Facsimile: (55-11) 3107-2040
5.03.	
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:	Telex:	
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD	248423(MCI) or	
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.	
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Sao Paulo, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year
first above written.
STATE OF SAO PAULO
By
;presentative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCT N AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
S
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the level-of-service provided to
the urban rail transport users of CPTM's Line 11-Coral in the SPMR in a safe and cost-
efficient manner by increasing the peak—hour and off-peak carrying capacity of CPTM's
Line 11-Coral; and (b) to continue the strengthening of the transport management and
policy framework in the SPMR.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objective:
Part A:	
Infrastructure and Equipment
The acquisition, through STM, of at least nine trains (EMUs) of eight cars each
and related accessories, to be operated in Line 11-Coral of the CPTM network.
Part B:	
Institutional and Policy Development
Supporting CPTM, through the provision of technical assistance, to: (a) carry out
studies, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for the design of a
climate change strategy; and (b) manage and supervise the carrying out of Part A of the
Project, including with respect to the manufacturing and implementation of the new
trains.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.	Implementation Arrangements
A.
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the execution and until
completion of the Project, a unit within STM to be responsible for the overall
coordination of the Project (the "PCU"). Such PCU shall have structure and
functions satisfactory to the Bank, and staff in adequate numbers and with
adequate qualifications, for the purposes of assisting STM in the general
coordination of the Project implementation. The PCU shall be headed at all times
by a coordinator with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, who shall report directly to the Secretario dos
Transportes Metropolitanos.
B.
Subsidiary Agreement
To facilitate the carrying out and overall coordination of the implementation of
the Project, the Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement with CPTM,
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
the obligations of CPTM under the Project, namely the obligation to operate the
trains to be financed under Part A of the Project ("Subsidiary Agreement").
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C.
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D.
Environmental and Social Provisions
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall carry out and shall cause the Project to be carried
out in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the
Environmental Assessment and the Addendum to the EA.
-8-
Section II.	
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A.
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicatorsagreed with the Bank ("Indicators").
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than two months after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B.
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2.	
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of each
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The Borrower shall ensure that the audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of such period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank. The respective terms of reference (TOR) for
such audits shall be prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank.
Section III.	
Procurement
A.	
General
Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
S
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
International Competitive Bidding. Goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
C.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.	
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a)
Quality-Based Selection
(b)
Selection under a Fixed-Budget
(c)
Least-Cost Selection
(d)
Selection of Individual consultants
(e)
Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications (CQS)
(f)
Single Source Selection (SSS)
Procedures set forth in Paragraphs	
5.2 and	
5.3	
of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D.	
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV.	
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A.	
General
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated
to be financed
Category
(expressed in USD)
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Consultants' services
for Part B of the
2,480,000
100%
Project
(2) Goods for Part A of
the Project
110,147,725
100%
(3) Front-end Fee
282,275
Amount payable pursuant to
Section	
2.03	
of	
this
Agreement	
in	
accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Premia for Interest
Amount payable pursuant to
Rate Caps and Interest
0
Section 2.07 (c) of the this
Rate Collars
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
112,910,000
B.	
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $22,582,000 equivalent may be made
for payments made within one year prior to this date but in no case before
November 16, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures.
2.	
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.
Section V.	
Access to Information
The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any information related to the
Legal Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to information, in effect at the
time of such disclosure
Section VI.	
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall, within the limits of its authority, commit to preserve the
CDTI and BUI at all times during execution and until the completion of the Project, in
the present or other format as long as they continue to enhance the mobility and
affordability of metropolitan transport to users, particularly those of low-income. In
addition, the Borrower shall undertake its best efforts to extend the BUI to other modes of
transportation and expand the CDTI to include other municipalities of the SPMR.
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2016
2%
through Au ust l 5, 2040
2.	
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b)
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
(a)	
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
- 13 -
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the Withdrawal Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 14 -
APPENDIX
Section I.	
Definitions
"Addendum to the EA" means Plano Basico Ambiental for CPTM Line 11-
Coral, the assessment issued by the Borrower through CPTM, dated April, 2009,
and the Environmental Reports and Addendum for CPTM Line 11 -Coral dated
October, 2009 detailing the Project environmental impacts and which identifies
existing environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental
impacts from the carrying out of the Project, and recommends mitigation
measures for each negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing
each identified positive impact and published in CPTM's website:
http://www.cptm.sp.gov.br/e meioamhiente/licencas.asp on February 2, 2010,
and the Bank's Infoshop on October 16, 2009.
2.	
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006.
"BUI" means Bilhete-Unico Integrado, an integrated single fare electronic ticket
which within a two-hour period allows the integration of transport modes, with
one trip over the rail based system and up to three bus trips within the Sao Paulo
municipality bus transport system.
4.	
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
"CDTI" means Comite Diretor de Transporte Integrado, the Borrower's
integrated transport coordination committee, created on May 11, 2006, through a
protocol signed by the STM and the Sao Paulo Secretary of Municipal Transport,
to ensure the technical and institutional cooperation for the implementation of
actions to promote the integration of policies, plans, projects and programs of the
public transport systems and traffic management in the SPMR.
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
"CPTM" means Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos, the Borrower's
metropolitan trains company.
"CPTM PMU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, established pursuant to a CPTM President's Decision (Ato do
Presidente) N° 3811 dated September 17, 2007, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
- 15 -
9.
"EMUs" means electrical multiple units.
10.
"Environmental Assessment" or "EA" means the Borrower's assessment
(Relatorio Ambiental Preliminar — RAP), dated August, 2007, of the Original
Project environmental impacts, which identifies the existing environmental
conditions and the potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the
carrying out of the Original Project, and recommends mitigation measures for
each negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each
identified positive impact.
11.
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
through February 12, 2008).
12.
"Indicators" means the impact, performance and implementation indicators
agreed with the Bank and set forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith,
as such letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
13.
"Line 11-Coral" means Linha 11-Coral of CPTM network (formerly known as
CPTM Line E), a 50.8 km suburban rail line connecting the center of Sao Paulo
to the Eastern areas of SPMR.
14.
"Original Loan" means loan amount referred to in the WHEREAS clause (A) of
this Agreement.
15.
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement referred to in the
WHEREAS clause (A) of this Agreement.
16.
"Original Project" means the project set forth in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement.
17.
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No 53033, dated May
28, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
18.
"PITU" means Plano Inlegrado de Transportes Urbanos, the integrated urban
transport plan for the SPMR, a plan that integrates urban transport, land use and
air quality.
19.
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006 and May 2010.
20.
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated October 5, 2007, updated on August 3, 2010, and referred to in paragraph
1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of said paragraphs.
21.
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and CPTM relating to the implementation of the Project.
22.
"Secretario dos Transportes Metropolitanos" means the Secretary of STM.
23.
"SPMR" means Sao Paulo metropolitan region, an area comprising the following
municipalities of the Borrower: Aruja, Barueri, Biritiba-Mirim, Cajamar,
Caieiras, Carapicuiba, Cotia, Diadema, Embu, Embu-Guacu, Ferraz de
Vasconcelos, Francisco Morato, Franco da Rocha, Guararema, Guarulhos,
Itapevi, Itaquaquecetuba, Itapecerica da Serra, Jandira, Juquitiba, Mairipora,
Maud, Mogi das Cruzes, Osasco, Pirapora do Born Jesus, Pod, Ribeirao Pires,
Rio Grande da Serra, Salesopolis, Santa Isabel, Santana do Parnaiba, Santo
Andre, Sao Bernardo do Campo, Sao Caetano do Sul, Sao Lourenco da Serra,
Sao Paulo, Suzano, Taboao da Serra and Vargem Grande Paulista.
24.
"STM" means Secretaria dos Transportes Metropolitanos, the Borrower's
Secretariat of Metropolitan Transport.
25.
"STN" means Secretaria do Tesouro National, the Guarantors' Secretariat for
National Treasury.
26.
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement (Convenio) referred to in Section
I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee
and Interest
(a)	
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association
("Preparation Advance"), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so
- 17-
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance."
2.	
Paragraph (1) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank
...	
(1) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the
Bank or the Association."
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)
The term "Project Preparation Advance" is modified to read "Preparation
Advance" and its definition is modified to read as follows:
"`Preparation Advance' means the advance referred to in the Financing
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07."
(b)
The definition of the term "Conversion Date" is modified to read as
follows:
"`Conversion Date' means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect,
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines."
Section III.	Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
as follows:
"... (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other
- 18 -
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
2.	
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:
"... (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank's sanctions policies and procedures
(fn l3) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract,
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
Footnotes:
"13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the
Bank's sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
financing made by such financier."
"14.
Member Country includes officials and employees of the national
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines."
"15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be
posted on the Bank's website and otherwise be made known to staff and other
stakeholders."
