  
 
  
  
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7952-BR 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Santa Catarina Rural Competitiveness Project - 
Programa Santa Catarina Rural-MICROBACIAS 3) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
and 
 
 
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 30, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
 
  
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated September 30, 2010, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and STATE OF SANTA 
CATARINA (“Borrower”).  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety million dollars, 
(US$90,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Secretary of SAR. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
- 2 - 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor, through its Secretariat of the National Treasury, request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to 
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause: (a) SAR (through EPAGRI and CIDASC, 
FATMA, and the Participating Entities  to carry out the activities under Parts 1 
(a), 2 and 3 of the Project which fall under their administrative jurisdiction; and 
(b) the Beneficiaries to carry out Part 1 (b) of the Project, all with assistance of 
the Participating Entities and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions, the Partnership Agreements the Cooperative Agreements 
and the Subproject Agreements. 
 
- 3 - 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Project Implementation Unit Regulation and/or the Rural 
Development Council Regulations have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
EPAGRI, CIDASC and/or FATMA shall have failed to comply with any 
of their obligations under the pertinent Partnership Agreement.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower. 
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Project Implementation Unit Regulation has been adopted by the 
Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Partnership Agreements have been signed by the parties thereto. 
 
(c) 
The Project Operational Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, has been adopted by the Borrower through the issuance of a 
resolution. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following:  
 
(a) 
the Partnership Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and by, respectively, EPAGRI,  CIDASC and FATMA, and 
are legally binding upon all said parties in accordance with their terms; 
and 
 
- 4 - 
(b)  
the Loan has been registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on March 2, 2012.  
 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Governor.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Gabinete do Governador 
Centro Administrativo 
Rodovia SC 401-km 5, nº 4.600, Bairro João Paulo 
Florianópolis, SC, 88032-000 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-48) 32213131 
 
 
With copy to: 
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda 
Centro Administrativo 
Rodovia SC 401-km 5, nº 4.600, Bairro João Paulo 
Florianópolis, SC, 88032-000 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-48) 32151794 
 
 
Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e Desenvolvimento Rural 
Rodovia Admar Gonzaga 
1486 – Km 3 – Itacorubi 
Florianapolis, SC, 88034-001 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-48) 3239-4093 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Leonel Arcângelo Pavan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the competitiveness of family 
agriculture producer organizations while providing support for an improved framework 
of structural competitiveness-inducing public services activities in the Borrower’s 
territory. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Family Agriculture Competitiveness and Increased Access to Markets 
 
Support family agriculture competitiveness in the Borrower’s territory through 
the implementation of the pertinent EEPs and the provision of technical assistance, by 
working with stakeholders across local, municipal and regional levels in order to increase 
organizational and participation skills for Project implementation through:  
 
(a)  
the carrying out of pre-investment activities to: (i) support technical, 
extension and training services  to create and consolidate added-value 
arrangements among family agriculture producer organizations and other 
commercial stakeholders; (ii) identify potential business opportunities 
and prepare business proposals; (iii) prepare related business plans; and 
(iv) build capacity among technical service providers to enhance the 
quality of their services provided in support of rural competitiveness; and  
 
(b)  
the carrying out of demand-driven productive and added-value 
investments through FDR to support the implementation by family 
agriculture producer organizations of viable business plans, including, 
inter alia: (i) diversification and improvement of production/farming 
systems; (ii) agro-processing; (iii) support to meet legal environmental 
and sanitary requirements for market access; (iv) marketing and logistics; 
and (v) off-farm/non-agricultural investments.  
 
Part 2. Complementary Public Investments for Rural Competitiveness 
 
Support the improvement of the structural rural competitiveness framework 
through the implementation of the pertinent EEPs and the provision of technical 
assistance, by financing public goods activities that are crucial for the sustained 
competitiveness of family agriculture producer organizations, and for the 
implementation of sectoral activities, such as water resource management; ecosystems 
and corridor management; environmental monitoring and education; rural infrastructure; 
regulatory framework compliance; rural technical assistance and extension, sanitary and 
phyto-sanitary services; and rural tourism.  
- 7 - 
 
Part 3. Support to the Rural Competitiveness Institutional Framework 
 
Enhance public administration performance in support of rural competitiveness 
through the implementation of the pertinent EEPs and the provision of technical 
assistance by implementing: (a) more efficient financial management and procurement 
systems; (b) a results-based management approach for the Project and the main 
institutions of the Borrower which have administrative jurisdiction over the rural sector; 
and (c) Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation. 
- 8 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
(a) The Borrower through SAR, shall cause the Project to be carried out in 
accordance with the Project Operational Manual, including the Procurement 
Plan, the Annual Operating Plan, the Environmental Management Framework, 
the Involuntary Resettlement Framework and the Indigenous Peoples 
Framework; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or waive any provision of these documents without the Bank’s prior 
written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of said documents and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, 
a Project implementation unit (the Project Implementation Unit) within SAR and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance, as applicable, with the provisions of 
Section III of this Schedule, including the following key staff: a Project 
coordinator, an environment specialist, a social specialist, an administrative 
coordinator, a procurement specialist and a financial management specialist. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project,  
a council (the Technical Council of Representatives) to convene at least once 
every semester, and shall submit the minutes of said meetings to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, at least once a year during Project implementation on or 
about December 1, commencing on the first such date after the Effective Date, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan (the Annual Operating Plan) for the 
Project’s operation during the following twelve months.  
 
5. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank no later than 30 days after the Effective 
Date and thereafter every six months after the Effective Date, regular reports (the 
EEP Spending Reports) prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Operational Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 
of this Schedule. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank on or about April 5 and October 5 each 
year starting on any such date after the Effective Date, a procurement report (the 
Procurement Plan Report) confirming that all procurement activities under the 
Project have been carried out in accordance with the Procurement Plan.  
- 9 - 
7. 
The Borrower shall: (a) have all the Project’s procurement records and 
documentation (including those for the Subprojects) for each fiscal year of the 
Project audited, in accordance with appropriate procurement auditing principles 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after the end of each such 
fiscal year, the procurement audit report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement records 
and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request. 
 
8. 
The Borrower, through SAR, shall ensure and/or cause to be ensured, that the 
EEPs will comply with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual. 
 
9. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the financing under the 
Project was used for items improperly procured in violation of Section III to this 
Schedule, was not used for Eligible Expenditures or, in case of the Eligible 
Expenditure Programs of the Project, was not supported by evidence of actual 
spending by the Borrower under said Eligible Expenditure Programs and/or by 
evidence of satisfaction of other criteria set forth in this Agreement or in the 
Project Operational Manual, the Borrower shall refund any such portion to the 
Bank for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation thereof, as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Subprojects 
 
1. 
Upon approval of a Subproject, the Borrower, through SAR, shall make available 
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan (the Grant) to the pertinent Beneficiary 
pursuant to an agreement (the Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through SAR, and said Beneficiary on terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Bank, including those set forth in paragraph 2 below, and in accordance 
with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as further detailed 
in the Project Operational Manual.  
 
2. 
Each Grant Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions: (a) SAR 
shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, 
including the right to: (1) suspend or terminate the right of Beneficiaries to use 
the proceeds of the Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of 
the Grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiaries’ failure to perform any of its 
- 10 - 
obligations under the Grant Agreement; and (2) require each Beneficiary to:  (a) 
carry out its Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, agricultural, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and 
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of 
Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, the Project Operational Manual, the 
Environmental Management Framework, the Indigenous Peoples Framework and 
the Involuntary Resettlement Framework, and the provisions of this Agreement 
as applicable to Subprojects; (b) provide, promptly as needed, the resources 
required for the purpose; (c) procure the goods, works and services (including 
consultants’ services) to be financed out of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement; (d) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
progress of the Subproject and the achievement of its objectives; (e) (i) maintain 
a simplified financial management system and records in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank for community 
driven initiatives, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Subproject; and (ii) at the Bank’s or the 
Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so 
audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (f) enable SAR and the Bank to inspect 
the Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (g) 
prepare and furnish to SAR and the Bank all such information as the Borrower, 
SAR or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SAR, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower, the Project Implementation Unit and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the Project Implementation Unit not assign, amend, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
D. 
Partnership Agreements  
 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Parts 1(a), 2 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower, 
through SAR, shall make available a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to 
EPAGRI, CIDASC and FATMA to carry out said Parts of the Project which fall 
under their administrative jurisdiction as further specified in the Project 
Operational Manual pursuant to a separate agreement (the Partnership 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, through SAR, and each of 
these entities, all under terms and conditions approved by the Bank as further 
specified in the Project Operational Manual. The Borrower, through SAR, shall 
cause EPAGRI, CIDASC and FATMA within their responsibilities to comply 
with said Partnership Agreements (including provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
- 11 - 
Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower) 
until the end of the execution of their respective Parts of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SAR, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under each Partnership Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Partnership Agreement or any of 
their provisions. 
 
E. 
Cooperative Agreements  
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAR, shall, execute a separate agreement (the 
Cooperative Agreement) with each Participating Entity, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Bank as further specified in the Project Operational 
Manual for purposes of assisting EPAGRI, CIDASC, FATMA and the 
Beneficiaries in the implementation of the respective Parts of the Project under 
their responsibility. Said Cooperative Agreements shall be executed no later than 
six months after the Effective Date, and for those Participating Entities entering 
Project implementation on a later date, the Cooperative Agreements shall be 
executed no later than 90 days after Bank approval of participation. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SAR, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under the Cooperative Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Cooperative Agreement or any 
of their provisions. 
 
F. 
Safeguards  
 
1. 
Environmental Management   
 
 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Unit, shall: (a) implement the 
Project and, when applicable, cause the Subprojects to be implemented in 
accordance with the Environmental Management Framework (including 
provisions for natural habitats, pest management, forests and chance finding of 
cultural property); and (b) when applicable, furnish to the Bank for its approval a 
specific environmental assessment for each Subproject, and thereafter carry out 
and/or cause to be carried out said environmental assessment in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter cause Beneficiaries to carry out the actions 
specified by such specific environemental assessment in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
 
- 12 - 
2. 
Indigenous Peoples 
 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Unit, shall: (a) implement the 
Project and, when applicable, cause the Subprojects to be implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Framework; and (b) 
when applicable, furnish to the Bank for its approval an specific indigenous 
peoples plan for each Subproject, and thereafter carry out and/or cause the 
Beneficiaries to carry out said specific indigenous peoples plan in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
3. 
Involuntary Resettlement  
 
 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Unit, shall: (a) implement the 
Project and, when applicable, cause the Subprojects to be implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the Involuntary Resettlement Framework; and 
(b) when applicable, furnish to the Bank for its approval an specific involuntary 
resettlement plan for each Subproject, and thereafter carry out and/or cause the 
Beneficiaries to carry out said specific involuntary resettlement plan in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Unit, shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than two months after the Closing Date 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty days after the end of each 
- 13 - 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
 The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The Borrower shall ensure that the audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end 
of such period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank.   
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods , Works and Services (Other than Consultants’ Services)   All goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other 
than Consultants’ Services)  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services).  The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services). The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 
- 14 - 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, including in respect of works, goods and 
services (other than Consultant’s Services), convite, tomada de preços and 
concorrência (set forth in the Borrower’s Law Nº 8,666 of June 21, 1993), 
and in respect of goods and services (other than Consultant’s Services), 
pregão eletrônico (as set forth in the Borrower’s Law Nº 10520 of July 17, 
2002, and in Decree Nº 5,450 of May 31, 2005), under ‘COMPRASNET’, 
the procurement portal of the Borrower, or any other e-procurement system 
approved by the Bank, subject to the following additional procedure, 
namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods and services (other than 
consultants’ services), pregão eletrônico set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 
10,520 of July 17, 2002, and in Decree Nº 5,450 of May 31, 2005). 
(c)   Direct Contracting 
(d) Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) under 
Subprojects may be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
the Project Operational Manual for community participation. 
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultant’s Qualifications 
(d) Single-Source Selection 
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in 
paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
- 15 - 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.  
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed or reimbursed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Eligible Expenditure 
Programs under the 
Project (including 
Subprojects)  
 
73,200,000 
Up to 50% of amounts 
spent and reported under 
the EEP Spending 
Reports 
(2) Consultants’ services 
for technical assistance 
under the Project 
(including 
Subprojects) 
 
16,575,000 
 
 
73% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
225,000 
 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
(4) Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest 
Rate Collars 
0 
Amount due under 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
90,000,000 
 
- 16 - 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,500,000 
equivalent for Category (1) and $500,000 equivalent for Category (2) 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after 
October 1, 2009 (but in no case more than twelve months prior to the 
date of this Agreement) for Eligible Expenditure Programs under 
Category (1) and Eligible Expenditures under Category (2); and 
 
(b) 
for payments made under Category (1) unless: (i) the relevant EEP 
Spending Report, as referred to in Section. I.A.5 of this Schedule, has 
been submitted to, and found satisfactory by, the Bank, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual and the additional 
instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule; and (ii) all 
other conditions referred to in the Project Operational Manual and in the 
additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule 
(including compliance with the Disbursement-Linked Indicators, when 
applicable and as referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement) have been 
met by the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
If the Bank has: 
 
(a) 
received only partial evidence of compliance under the Disbursement-
Linked Indicators referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and/or the 
70 percent rule (both interim and final) (as referred to in the Project 
Operational Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section 
IV.A.1 of this Schedule) is not met, and/or the Borrower has not 
presented enough Eligible Expenditures under the Eligible Expenditure 
Programs to disburse the full amounts in respect to the withdrawals 
under Category (1) (as referred to in the Project Operational Manual and 
the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule), 
the Bank may, at its option, authorize that the unwithdrawn portion of the 
Loan resulting from this lack of evidence be carried forward to the 
subsequent withdrawals, provided that, if this occurs, the amount to be 
disbursed by the Bank, in the aggregate under all subsequent 
withdrawals, shall not exceed 50 percent of the sum of amounts spent 
under the Eligible Expenditure Programs for the years up to and 
including the one for which the withdrawal is made; and 
 
- 17 - 
(b) 
not approved a full withdrawal by the Borrower of the Loan proceeds 
under Category (1), the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, cancel the corresponding amount of the Loan at the time of 
the final disbursement. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2016. The Bank may grant an extension of 
the Closing Date after the Guarantor´s Ministry of Finance has informed the 
Bank that it agrees with such an extension.  
 
Section V. 
Access to Information 
 
The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any information related to the 
Legal Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to information, in effect at the 
time of such disclosure. 
 
Section VI. 
Other Undertakings 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAR, shall: (i) no later than three months after the 
Effective Date, designate the independent auditors as referred to in Sections II. 
B.3 above; and (ii) no later than six months after the Effective Date, designate the 
procurement auditors as referred to in Section I. A.7 above; all under terms of 
reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
By September 30, 2013, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the 
Borrower shall: (i) carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the 
implementation of operations under the Project, which shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) following such mid-term 
review, act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be 
agreed by the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SAR, shall: (i) no later than twelve months after the 
Effective Date, launch a public competitive examination (in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank) to hire rural extensionists; and (ii) no later than twelve 
months after the Effective Date adopt and publish a regulation in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank in order to create the Borrower’s institute of 
water administration (IGASC). 
 
 
- 18 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15, 
beginning September 15, 2020 through 
September 15, 2034  
 
 
3.33% 
On March 15, 2035  
3.43% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
- 19 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
- 20 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Eligible Expenditure Programs 
 
Budget Item and Borrower’s 
Budget Line Numbers 
(as set forth in the Borrower´s  Budget 
Laws) 
 
Expenditure 
Type 
Expected Expenditures (US$ ‘000) 
Year 
1 
Year 
2 
Year 
3 
Year 
4 
Year 
5 
Year 
6 
Rural Roads under Part 2 of the Project 
(including Subprojects) 
0100 
Goods / Works 
/ Services 
(including 
consultants’ 
services) / and 
Operating 
Costs.  
874 
2,044 
2,545 
2,843 
3,438 
1,507 
Digital Inclusion under Part 2 of the Project 
(including Subprojects) 
0250 
Goods / Works 
/ Services / 
Recurrent Costs 
412 
290 
237 
152 
152 
183 
Quality of Life in Rural and Urban Areas under 
Part 1 of the Project (including Subprojects) 
0300 
Goods / Works 
/ Services / 
Recurrent Costs 
1,800 
1,910 
1,668 
2,328 
3,207 
3,208 
Competitive Agribusiness under Part 1 and 2 of 
the Project (including Subprojects) 
0310 
Goods / Works 
/ Services / 
Recurrent Costs 
18,770 15,624 14,374 15,840 15,182 16,925 
Sustainable Environmental Development under 
Part 1 and 2  of the Project (including 
Subprojects) 
0340 
Goods / Works 
/ Services / 
Recurrent Costs 
1,476 
1,583 
841 
1,119 
679 
941 
Water Resources Management under Part 2 of 
the Project (including Subprojects) 
0350 
Goods / Works 
/ Services / 
Recurrent Costs 
6,079 
5,056 
3,224 
3,988 
3,797 
3,578 
Rural Tourism under Part 1 and 2 of the Project 
(including Subprojects) 
0640 
Goods / Works 
/ Services / 
Recurrent Costs 
498 
765 
689 
980 
255 
278 
Administration and Management in the 
Executive branch of the Borrower under Part 3 
of the Project (including Subprojects) 
0900 
Goods / Works 
/ Services / 
Recurrent Costs 
1,034 
819 
721 
635 
637 
630 
 
- 21 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Disbursement Linked Indicators 
 
 
Disbursement Linked Indicator  
 
Annual Cumulative Target 
 
Total 
Year 
1 
Year 
2 
Year 
3 
Year 
4 
Year 
5 
Year 6 
(1) Number of new added-value arrangements 
established or strengthened, such as alliances, 
networks and cooperatives 
N/A 
79 
102 
120 
129 
138 
138 
(2) Number of existing small agro-businesses made 
compliant with SPS Requirements, and new agro-
processing and non-agricultural businesses created  
N/A 
60 
140 
270 
400 
500 
500 
(3) Number of ancillary climate-resilient production 
systems  improvement and tourism plans executed 
through Subprojects with Project support 
 N/A 
1,576 
4,616 
7,658 
14,600 
20,000 
20,000 
(4) Number of rural  tourism plans executed through 
Subprojects with Project support 
 N/A 
12 
18 
24 
30 
30 
30 
(5) Number of River Basin Strategic Plans formulated 
on a participatory basis 
 N/A 
3 
5 
8 
11 
14 
14 
(6) Number of River Basins with registration of users 
completed 
 N/A 
3 
5 
8 
11 
14 
14 
(7) Number of hectares of forests under “Conservation 
Credits”  
 N/A 
50 
450 
950 
950 
950 
950 
(8) Number of farms with SIEE implemented (SIEE of 
livestock - meat and milk -, grains, forestry, SAF 
and tourism) 
 N/A 
0 
30 
80 
140 
200 
200 
(9) Number of kilometers of rural roads associated to 
business plans rehabilitated 
 N/A 
250 
500 
800 
1,150 
1,300 
1,300 
(10) Number of Pilot Digital Inclusion projects 
implemented with internet connection to support 
enterprises connected to networks 
 N/A 
5 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
(11) Number of units of Family Agriculture production 
and processing units registered and certified to 
comply with phyto-sanitary requirements 
 N/A 
420 
850 
1,400 
2,170 
2,740 
2,740 
(12) Number of farms certified for absence of animal 
tuberculosis and brucellosis 
 N/A 
0 
100 
250 
450 
700 
700 
(13) Number of new regular technical assistance and 
rural extension professional staff allocated by 
EPAGRI in priority Project municipalities, by 
CIDASC to phyto-sanitary certification and by 
FATMA to SIEE implementation  
 N/A 
156 
156 
176 
176 
176 
176 
- 22 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.   
Definitions 
 
1. 
“70 percent rule” means a condition to be met by the Borrower for Loan 
disbursements to take place, namely that for interim disbursements (as specified 
in the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Agreement), the 
EEPs supported actually disburse at least 70% of the overall budgeted amount for 
the group as a whole during the previous semester with respect to the monthly 
budget forecast issued by the SEF at the beginning of each fiscal year, while for 
final disbursements (as specified in the additional instructions referred to in 
Section IV.A.1 of this Agreement), that the  expenditures for each of the eight 
EEPs  in the previous fiscal year be equal to or greater than 70% of their 
individual budgeted amounts for the fiscal year with respect to the expected 
annual budgeted amounts specified in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Annual Operating Plan” means each plan referred to in Section I.A.4 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Beneficiaries” means a family agriculture producer organization, a group of 
individuals living in a rural area, a rural community organization, a rural 
cooperative in the Borrower’s territory, all vested with legal personality in 
accordance with the Borrower’s and the Guarantor’s law, whose Subprojects 
have been found eligible in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Project 
Operation Manual, have applied for financing and have received or are to receive 
a Grant to be executed under Part 1 (b) of the Project. 
 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“CIDASC” means Companhía Integrada de Desenvolvimento Agrícola de Santa 
Catarina, the Borrower’s public enterprise established and operating under the 
Borrower’s Law/Decree Nº 5,516 dated February 28, 1979, and transformed in 
public enterprise on September 6, 2005. 
 
7. 
“Conservation Credits” means the valuation of environmental assets (existing 
forest or forest in recuperation), duly registered by FATMA and eligible to be 
used as collateral, conditioned on counterpart obligations on the part of the 
property owner. 
- 23 - 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
9. 
“Cooperative Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I. 
E.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Disbursement-Linked Indicators” means the set of indicators set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and as further specified in the Project Operational 
Manual. 
 
11. 
“EEP” or “Eligible Expenditure Programs” means the Project’s sector program 
budget lines described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement under which a set of 
defined expenditures for the reasonable cost of goods, works, services (including 
consultants’ services), and Operating Costs,  will be financed with the proceeds 
of the Loan, and thus said set of expenditures constitute a subset of the Eligible 
Expenditures defined in the General Conditions. 
 
12. 
“EEP Spending Report” means the report prepared by the Borrower in 
accordance with the Project Operational Manual and referred to in Section I.A.5 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement on the spending status of the Eligible 
Expenditure Programs under the Project. 
 
13. 
“EPAGRI” means Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuária e de Extensão Rural de 
Santa Catarina, the Borrower’s agency for the provision of rural extension and 
research services,  established and operating under the Borrower’s Law/Decree 
Nº 8,245 dated April 18, 1991. 
 
14. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s framework, 
dated January 20, 2010, acceptable to the Bank, duly published and available to 
the public on the website http://www.microbacias.sc.gov.br, which contains the 
environmental principles and policies that shall apply to the implementation of 
the Project including, when applicable, to the preparation and carrying out of any 
Subproject. 
 
15. 
“FATMA” means Fundação do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower’s Environmental 
Management Foundation, as established and operating under the Borrower’s 
Law/Decree Nº 662 dated July 30, 1975. 
 
16. 
“FDR” means Fundo de Desenvolvimento Rural, the Borrower’s fund for rural 
development, as established and operating under the Borrower’s Law/Decree Nº 
8,676 dated June 17, 1992.  
 
17. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
- 24 - 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
18. 
“Grant” means a grant made or to be made (out of the proceeds of the Loan) by 
the Borrower to Beneficiaries for the financing of a portion of the capital cost of 
Subprojects. 
 
19. 
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“IGASC” means Instituto de Gestão de Águas de Santa Catarina, the Borrower’s 
institute for water management, referred to in Section VI of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be established by the Borrower through a regulation all in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
21. 
“Indigenous Peoples Framework” means the Borrower’s framework dated 
December 22, 2009, acceptable to the Bank, duly published and available to the 
public on the website http://www.microbacias.sc.gov.br, which contains the 
social principles and policies that shall apply for the protection of indigenous 
peoples in connection with the implementation of the Project including, when 
applicable, to the preparation and carrying out of any Subproject. 
 
22. 
 “Involuntary Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s framework dated 
December 22, 2009, acceptable to the Bank, duly published and available to the 
public on the website http://www.microbacias.sc.gov.br, which contains the 
resettlement principles and policies that shall apply to the implementation of the 
Project including, when applicable, to the preparation and carrying out of any 
Subproject. 
 
23. 
 “Operating Costs” means the following management and supervision costs, to 
the extent they would not have been incurred absent the Project, including: (i) 
maintenance of furniture and equipment; (ii) communication costs; and (iii) 
travel expenses (per diem, lodging and transportation), other than for training 
purposes. 
 
24. 
“Participating Entities” means collectively each and all of the entities 
participating in the Project implementation, i.e.,  SOL, SDS, , SSP-PMA,SIE , 
and any other entity in addition to or in substitution of the aforementioned, as  
acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank, and set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
25. 
“Partnership Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I. 
D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 25 - 
26. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
27. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 27, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
28. 
 “Project Implementation Unit” means the Project implementation unit within 
SAR in charge of the daily implementation of the Project as established and 
operating under the Project Implementation Unit Regulation, and referred to in 
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
29. 
“Project Implementation Unit Regulation” means the regulations to be enacted by 
the Borrower setting forth the structure and responsibilities to be assigned to the 
Project's Implementing Unit. 
 
30. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s operational manual for the 
Project, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain, inter alia:  (i) the terms of 
reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the Project 
Implementation Unit; (ii) the procedures for procurement of works, goods, 
services (other than consultants’ services) and consultants’ services for the 
Project and for the Subprojects, as well as for financial management and audits 
(i.e. financial audit and procurement audit) of the Project and of the Subprojects; 
(iii) the flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds; (iv) the eligibility 
criteria for the Subprojects, their selection and approval processes, the Restrictive 
List, as well as model forms for Grant Agreements; (v) model forms for the 
Cooperative Agreements; (vi) the staffing plan for the Project Implementation 
Unit; (vii) the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of the Project; (viii) the 
EEPs and Disbursement Linked Indicators; and (ix) the Environmental 
Management Framework, the Involuntary Resettlement Framework and the 
Indigenous Peoples Framework, as such manual may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank.  
 
31. 
“Restrictive List” means a list of activities to be annexed to the Project 
Operational Manual and detailing all the types of Subprojects which are excluded 
from the Project, irrespective of the source of financing. 
 
32. 
“River Basin Strategic Plans” means a strategic plan prepared by the Borrower, 
and its associated actions (including a diagnosis of water resources; and water 
supply and demand) for the management of river basin resources in the 
Borrower's territory, as detailed in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
- 26 - 
33. 
 “Rural Development Council Regulation” means the Borrower’s Decree No. 
009/93 dated September 9, 1993 setting forth the structure and responsibilities 
assigned to the Technical Council of Representatives. 
 
34. 
“SAF” means Sistema Agroflorestal, an integrated land-use system incorporating 
fruit-bearing and wood-producing species with agricultural/livestock production 
for the generation of both economic and ecological benefits. 
 
35. 
“SAR” means Secretaría de Estado da Agricultura e Desenvolvimento Rural, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat for Agriculture and Rural Development. 
 
36. 
“SDS” means Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Sustentável, the Borrower’s 
Secretariat for Sustainable Development.  
 
37. 
“SIE” means Secretaria de Estado da Infraestrutura e Equipamento, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat for Infrastructure and Equipment.  
 
38. 
“SIEE” means Sistema de Integração Econômica e Ecológica, the Borrower’s 
management practices to be implemented under the Project to integrate local 
production arrangements with conservation techniques, as further detailed in the 
Operation Manual. 
 
39. 
“SOL” means Secretaria de Estado de Turismo, Cultura e Esporte, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat for Tourism and Sports. 
 
40. 
“SSP” means Secretaria de Segurança Pública, the Borrower’s Secretariat for 
Public Security. 
 
41. 
“SPS Requirements” means sanitary and phytosanitary requirements, established 
by Federal and State legislation, for primary and value-added agricultural 
production. 
 
42. 
“Subprojects” means any of the investments referred to in Part 1 (b) of the 
Project, as approved by the Borrower through the Project Implementation Unit 
and the Bank in accordance with relevant provisions of the Project Operational 
Manual. 
 
43. 
“Technical Council of Representatives” means a committee in charge of the 
oversight of the Project as established and operating under the Rural 
Development Council Regulation. 
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
- 27 - 
1. 
The introduction to Section 2.05 and paragraph (a) of said Section of the General 
Conditions are modified to read as follows:  
 
“The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan or cause said proceeds to be used 
exclusively to finance (and/or as reimbursement for) expenditures which, except 
as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, satisfy the following 
requirements: 
 
(a) 
the payment is for the financing or reimbursement of the reasonable cost 
of goods, works, services (including consultants’ services), Operating Costs and 
Personnel Expenditures (as said terms are defined in the Appendix to the Loan 
Agreement) required for the Project, to be financed or reimbursed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and procured, all in accordance with the provisions of the 
Legal Agreements; ” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association (“Preparation 
Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the 
Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the 
withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such 
withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn 
to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
3. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
- 28 - 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier 
that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
4. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(c) 
The definition of the term “Variable Rate” is modified, in relevant part, 
to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance that accrues interest at a variable 
rate during the Conversion Period, the variable rate of interest applicable 
to such amount shall be equal to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR,  or 
such other base rate as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, for 
the Approved Currency; plus (B) the spread to LIBOR or to such other 
base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge 
Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the interest 
rate component of the Screen Rate.” 
 
Section III.   
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
- 29 - 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
- 30 - 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
