  
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7908-BR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(São Paulo Sustainable Rural Development and Access to Markets Project - 
Projeto Desenvolvimento Rural Sustentável – Microbacias II) 
 
 
between 
 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 27, 2010
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated September 27, 2010, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
(“Borrower”). The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy eight million dollars 
($78,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Borrower’s Representatives for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section are its Governor or its Secretary of Finance. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection 
of the Guarantor, through its Secretariat of the National Treasury, request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to 
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Secretariat of 
Agriculture and Supply (by CATI) and through its Secretariat of Environment 
(by CBRN) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
 
- 3 - 
 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the 
Project Management Unit’s Regulation or the Steering Council’s Regulation 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 120 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Management Unit’s Regulation and the Steering Council’s 
Regulation have been adopted and published in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Project Operational Manual has been adopted through a joint 
resolution issued by SAA and SMA and published by the Borrower in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that that the Loan 
has been registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire November 25, 2011. 
 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Governor.  
 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s address is: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado de São Paulo 
Avenida Rangel Pestana, 300, 5o andar 
São Paulo, SP, 01017-911 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3104-5953 
 
With copies to: 
 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
Brasília, DF, 70040-906 
 
Brazil 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile:   
(55-61) 2020-5006 
 
And to: 
 
 
CATI – Coordenadoria de Assistência Técnica Integral - UGP 
 
Avenida Brasil, 2.340 – Jardim Chapadão  
 
Campinas, SP, 13070-178 
 
Brazil 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile:   
(55-19) 3743-3705 
 
 
CBRN – Coordenadoria de Biodiversidade e Recursos Naturais 
 
Avenida Professor Frederico Hermann Júnior, 345  
 
São Paulo, SP, 05459-900 
 
Brazil 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile:   
(55-11) 3032-9473 
 
 
Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento do Estado de São Paulo  
 
Avenida Miguel Stefano, 3.900 
 
São Paulo, SP, 04301-903  
 
Brazil 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile:   
(55-11) 5067-0300 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
 
Secretaria do Meio Ambiente do Estado de São Paulo 
 
Avenida Professor Frederico Hermann Júnior, 345  
 
São Paulo, SP, 05459-900 
 
Brazil 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile:  
(55-11) 3133-3177 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at São Paulo, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Alberto Goldman  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower to increase the 
competitiveness of family agriculture in its territory while improving its environmental 
sustainability. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following components: 
 
Component 1. Supporting Small Farmers’ Business Initiatives 
 
Provide support to business initiatives undertaken by small farmers organizations 
(the Small Farmers) including those of women, youth, and indigenous peoples by:  
 
(a)  
implementing small sustainable and competitive business investments 
(Farmers’ Business Initiatives) through grants (the Grants) aimed at 
increasing Small Farmers’ competitiveness (productivity, quality, value 
added 
and 
marketing) 
while 
improving 
environmentally-sound 
agricultural practices; and  
 
(b)  
strengthening 
producers’ 
organization 
regarding 
agricultural 
competitiveness through information and training programs to stimulate 
the emergence of business ideas in targeted municipalities and micro-
catchments in the Borrower’s territory, by providing technical assistance 
for the preparation of business proposals to be funded for Farmers’ 
Business Initiatives under the Grants (market analysis, feasibility 
assessments, assistance to informal groups to constitute formal 
organizations, inter alia), as well as by providing technical assistance on 
organizational, financial, marketing, implementation and monitoring 
issues under Farmers’ Business Initiatives. 
 
Component 2. Strengthening Institutional and Physical Infrastructure 
 
Provide support to the Borrower’s functions that are critical to the 
competitiveness and sustainability of family farming in its territory through investments 
in:  
(a)   
monitoring policy frameworks, markets and rural extension through 
studies and workshops to improve regulation and incentive systems for 
family farming competitiveness (labeling systems, and analysis of 
specific supply-chains, inter alia), the setting-up of an online agri-
business information center, and the strengthening the capacity of CATI 
to advise Small Farmers on production technologies, marketing and 
 
- 7 - 
 
management at central, regional and municipal levels through the 
provision of training and equipment; 
 
(b)  
rehabilitating and maintaining municipal rural roads in the Borrower’s 
territory to help facilitate Small Farmers’ physical access to markets 
through assistance to the Borrower’s municipalities to prepare simple 
rural road management programs, financing of grants (when minimum 
levels of technical, institutional and financial sustainability are met) for 
infrastructure subprojects (Infrastructure Subprojects) to support 
rehabilitation and maintenance of priority sections of rural roads as 
identified in the rural road management programs so as to ensure all-year 
usability, and supporting units of production of small paving materials; 
and 
 
(c)  
promoting environmental sustainability through the mainstreaming of 
improved environmental practices in rural production systems to ensure 
the sustainability of the productive resource-base (land and water) by 
supporting pilot subprojects at farm-level (Environmental Subprojects), 
implementation of the Borrower’s environmental compliance system  in 
rural areas combined with environmental awareness-raising, and the 
carrying out of the Borrower’s new program of payments for 
environmental services to rural areas. 
 
Component 3. Project Management 
 
Provide support to the Borrower to efficiently and effectively implement, 
administer, supervise, and coordinate all the activities carried out under the Project by 
financing the institutional structures, equipment and personnel required to manage 
Project activities, including fiduciary functions (procurement, accounting and financial 
management) as well as technical planning, implementation of social and environmental 
safeguard instruments, monitoring and evaluation, dissemination of Project results and 
implementation of a pro-active communication strategy. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through CATI and CBRN (each within their respective area 
of autonomy and competence), carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Project Operational Manual, including the Procurement Plan, the Annual 
Operating Plans, the Environmental Management Framework, the Involuntary 
Resettlement Framework and the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision 
of these documents without the Bank’s prior written approval.  In case of any 
conflict between the terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, 
a joint CATI/CBRN Project management unit (the Project Management Unit) 
physically located in CATI premises and with competent staff in adequate 
numbers with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and selected 
in accordance, as applicable, with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, 
including the following key staff: a Project coordinator (from CATI), two 
technical managers (one from CATI and one from CBRN), a procurement 
specialist, a financial management specialist, a social safeguard specialist and an 
ennvironmental safeguard specialist. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, 
CATI Regional Units and SMA Regional Units, with competent staff in adequate 
numbers with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and selected 
in accordance, as applicable, with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project,  
a steering council (the Steering Council) to convene at least once every semester, 
and shall submit the minutes of said meetings to the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall convene, until the completion of the execution of the Project,  
a consultative forum (the Consultative Forum) at least once every year, and shall 
submit the proceedings of said meetings to the Bank. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall, at least once a year during Project implementation on or 
about December 1, commencing on the first such date after the Effective Date, 
 
- 9 - 
 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan (the Annual Operating Plan) for the 
Project’s operation during the following twelve months. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall: (a) have all the procurement records and documentation for 
the Subprojects for each fiscal year of the Project audited, in accordance with 
appropriate procurement auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said procurement records and documentation and the 
procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
8. 
To carry out the Project, the Borrower, through the Project Management Unit, 
shall sign no later than twelve months after the Effective Date and thereafter 
maintain and comply with a memorandum of understanding with FUNAI 
containing terms and conditions approved by the Bank as further specified in the 
Project Operational Manual. The Borrower, through the Project Management 
Unit, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under said 
memorandum of understanding in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive said memorandum of understanding or any of its provisions. In case of any 
conflict between the terms of said memorandum of understanding and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Subprojects    
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make Grants to Beneficiaries (Small Farmers, Municipalities 
and Organizations) for Subprojects (Farmers’ Business Initiatives, Infrastructure 
Subprojects and Environmental Subprojects) in accordance with eligibility 
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as further detailed in the Project 
Operational Manual.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Management Unit, enter into Grant 
Agreements appropriate for the carrying out Subprojects, such agreements to be 
made in accordance with terms of the respective draft set forth in model forms 
approved by the Bank and included in the Project Operational Manual, in which 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the 
Bank, including the right to: (1) suspend or terminate the right of Beneficiaries to 
 
- 10 - 
 
use the proceeds of the Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount 
of the Grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiaries’ failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the Grant Agreement; and (2) require Beneficiaries to: (a) carry 
out their Subprojects with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, agricultural, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and 
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of 
Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, the Environmental Management 
Framework, the Involuntary Resettlement Framework and the Indigenous 
Peoples Planning Framework; (b) provide, promptly as needed, the resources 
required for the purpose; (c) procure the goods, works and services to be financed 
out of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (d) 
maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance 
with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Subprojects and the 
achievement of their objectives; (e) (i) maintain a simplified financial 
management system and records in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank for community driven initiatives, 
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Subprojects; and (ii) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have 
the resulting financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower 
and the Bank; (f) enable the Project Management Unit and the Bank to inspect 
the Subprojects, their operation and any relevant records and documents; and (g) 
prepare and furnish to the Project Management Unit and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower, the Project Management Unit or the Bank shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Management Unit to exercise its rights 
under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 
Management Unit not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Grant Agreement or 
any of its provisions. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its prior review and approval the first 
two Farmers’ Business Initiatives, the first two Infrastructure Subprojects and the 
first two Environmental Subprojects. 
 
D. 
Safeguards  
1. 
Environmental Management Framework  
 
 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Management Unit: (a) implement the 
Project in accordance with the Environmental Management Famework (including 
 
- 11 - 
 
provisions for natural habitats, pest management, forests and chance finding of 
cultural property); and (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said Environmental 
Management 
Framework 
for 
environmental 
screening, 
evaluation, 
implementation and monitoring of Subprojects.  
 
2. 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework 
 
 
The Borrower shall through the Project Management Unit: (a) implement the 
Project in accordance with the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and (b) 
adopt the procedures detailed in said Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework 
for screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects.   
 
3. 
Involuntary Resettlement Framework 
 
 
The Borrower shall through the Project Management Unit: (a) implement the 
Project in accordance with the Involuntary Resettlement Framework; and (b) 
adopt the procedures detailed in said Involuntary Resettlement Framework for 
screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects.  
 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the Project Management Unit, shall monitor and evaluate 
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than two months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of 
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under  
the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods , Works and Services (Other than Consultants’ Services)   All goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other 
than Consultants’ Services)  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services).  The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services). The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional procedure, 
namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Community Participation, in accordance with the procedures described in 
the Project Operational Manual, for the procurement of  goods, works and 
services (other than consultants’ services) under Farmers’ Business 
Initiatives and Environmental Subprojects. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultant’s Qualifications 
(d) Single-Source Selection 
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
 
- 14 - 
 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Farmers’ Business 
Initiatives Subproject 
under Component 1(a)  
of the Project 
 
32,000,000 
 
100% of Grants disbursed 
for such Subprojects 
(2) Infrastructure 
Subprojects under 
Component 2(b) of the 
Project 
 
14,480,000 
 
100% of Grants disbursed 
for such Subprojects 
(3) Environmental 
Subprojects under 
Component 2(c) of the 
Project 
 
 5,888,000 
 
100% of Grants disbursed 
for such Subprojects 
(4) Goods, Works, 
Consultants’ Services, 
Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services) 
and Training for Project 
Components except for 
Subprojects  under 1(a), 
2(b) and 2(c) of the 
Project 
 
 
23,887,000 
 
 
100% 
(5) Operating Costs for 
Project Components 
except for Subprojects 
under 1(a), 2(b) and 
2(c) of the Project 
 
 1,550,000 
 
100% 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
 
  195,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
- 15 - 
 
(7) Premium for Interest 
Rate Caps and Collars 
                0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.04 of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
78,000,000 
 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this table: 
(a)  
the term “Operating Costs” means the operational costs (which would 
not have occurred absent the Project, including, inter alia, equipment and 
computer maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and rent for office 
facilities) and the supervision and monitoring costs of the Project 
incurred by the Project Management Unit, CATI, CBRN, and the 
Steering Council and the Consultative Forum under the Project 
(including, inter alia, travel, per diem, accommodation, operation and 
maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel, spare parts and insurance, 
maintenance of the monitoring and information system, supervisory and 
quality control activities, but excluding expenditures for salaries and 
related benefits);  
(b)  
the term “Training” means the costs, which would not have occurred 
absent the Project, including, inter alia, information workshops and 
training programs, assistance to informal groups of farmer organizations, 
setting up of on-line agri-business information center, equipment 
required for training purposes and the travel, per diem and 
accommodation costs for technical staff the Project Management Unit, 
CATI, CBRN, and Beneficiaries carrying out training, but excluding 
expenditures for salaries and related benefits; and 
(c)  
the term “Services (Other than Consultants’ Services)” means the costs 
of services which are not consultants’ services, including, inter alia, the 
costs of surveys, data collection and processing, printing services, 
publications and dissemination activities.  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
  
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 14,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made within twelve months prior 
 
- 16 - 
 
to such date for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) through (5) ; 
and 
 
(b) 
under Category (1) unless the Bank has received an adequate legal 
framework for the operation of the Farmers’ Business Initiatives, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2015. The Bank shall only grant an extension 
of the Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the 
Bank that it agrees with such extension. 
 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
By February 28, 2013, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower 
shall: 
1. 
carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of 
operations under the Project (Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall 
cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project; and 
2. 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Bank.   
 
 
- 17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2015  
 
Through December 15, 2039 
 
 
2% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
 
- 18 - 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
- 19 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Operating Plan” means an annual operating plan to be prepared by the 
Borrower on or about December 1 each Project year as per Section I. A. 6 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Beneficiaries” 
means 
collectively 
Small 
Farmers, 
Municipalities 
or 
Organizations established in accordance with the Borrower’s and the Guarantor’s 
law, whose Subprojects have been found eligible in accordance with the criteria 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual, that have applied for financing and 
have received or are to receive a Grant under a Grant Agreement to be executed 
under, respectively, Components 1(a), 2(b) and 2(c) of the Project. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CATI” means Coordenadoria de Assistência Técnica Integral, the Borrower’s 
directorate of rural extension within the Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture 
and Supply, as created and operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 41.608, 
dated February 24, 1997. 
6. 
“CATI Regional Units” means Escritórios de Desenvolvimento Rural,  the 
regional units of CATI, as created and operating under the Borrower’s Decree 
No. 41.608, dated February 24, 1997.  
7. 
“CBRN” means Coordenadoria de Biodiversidade e Recursos Naturais, the 
Borrower’s directorate for biodiversity and natural resources within the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Environment, as created and operating under the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 54.653, dated August 6, 2009. 
8. 
“CBRN Regional Units” means Centros Técnicos Regionais, the regional 
technical units of CBRN, as created and operating under the Borrower’s Decree 
No. 54.653, dated August 6, 2009. 
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
- 20 - 
 
10. 
“Consultative Forum” means a forum (Forum Consultivo) referred to in the 
Project Operational Manual in charge of providing a discussion forum for the 
Project and comprising, inter alia, representatives from the Small Farmers, agri-
business associations, civil society groups, indigenous peoples, academic 
institutions, municipalities and the private sector, SAA, CATI, SMA, CBRN, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning, and the Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance. 
11. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the document dated November 
2009, 
as 
published 
and 
available to the 
public 
on 
the 
websites 
www.cati.sp.gov.br 
and 
www.ambiente.sp.gov.br 
which 
contains 
the 
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including measures 
for pest management, forests, chance finding of cultural property and protection 
of natural habitats identification of existing environmental conditions and 
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the carrying out of the 
Project, including Subprojects, recommendation of mitigation measures for each 
negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified 
positive impact, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the 
Bank’s prior approval. 
12. 
“Environmental Subprojects” means eligible subprojects as selected and 
approved by the Project Management Unit in accordance with relevant provisions 
of the Project Operational Manual and to be partly financed with a Grant under a 
Grant Agreement for the activities set forth in Component 2(c) of the Project and 
to be carried out by an Organization within the territory of Borrower. 
13. 
“Farmers’ Business Initiatives” means eligible subprojects of the Project as 
selected and approved by the Project Management Unit in accordance with 
relevant provisions of the Project Operational Manual and to be partly financed 
with a Grant under a Grant Agreement for the activities set forth in Component 1 
(a) of the Project and to be carried out by Small Farmers within the territory of 
Borrower. 
14. 
“FUNAI” means Fundação Nacional do Índio, the Guarantor’s national agency 
for indigenous peoples, as created and operating under the Guarantor’s Law No. 
5371 dated December 5, 1967. 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
16. 
“Grant Agreements” means agreements entered into between the Borrower, 
through the Project Management Unit and Beneficiaries as referred to in Section 
I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for the financing and implementation of 
Subprojects.  
 
- 21 - 
 
17. 
 “Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to Small Farmers, 
Municipalities or Organizations (Beneficiaries), under Components 1(a), 2(b) and 
2(c) of the Project for the financing of eligible Subprojects in the Borrower’s 
territory to cover part of the cost of said Subprojects.   
18. 
 “Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the document dated October, 
2009, published and available to the public on the website www.cati.sp.gov.br, 
which contains the principles and protection measures in respect of indigenous 
peoples that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out the Project including 
any Subproject, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the 
Bank’s prior approval. 
19. 
 “Infrastructure Subprojects” means eligible subprojects as selected and approved 
by the Project Management Unit in accordance with relevant provisions of the 
Project Operational Manual and to be partly financed with a Grant under a Grant 
Agreement for the activities set forth in Component 2(b) of the Project and to be 
carried out by a Municipality within the territory of Borrower. 
20. 
 “Involuntary Resettlement Framework” means the document dated November 
2008, published and available to the public on the website www.cati.sp.gov.br,  
and outlining general implementation procedures, mitigation measures and 
monitoring procedures for involuntary resettlement under the Project, as said 
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
21. 
 “Municipalities” means municipalities in the territory of the Borrower, 
established in accordance with the Borrower’s and the Guarantor’s law, whose 
Infrastructure Subprojects have been found eligible in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual, that have applied for 
financing and have received or are to receive a Grant under a Grant Agreement to 
be executed under Component 2(b) of the Project. 
22. 
 “Organizations” means producers’ associations, cooperatives or environmental 
associations with legal personality established in accordance with the Borrower’s 
and the Guarantor’s law, whose Farmers’ Business Initiative or/and 
Environmental Subprojects have been found eligible in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual, that have applied for 
financing and have received or are to receive a Grant under a Grant Agreement to 
be executed under, respectively, Component 1(a) or Component 2(c) of the 
Project. 
23. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
- 22 - 
 
24. 
 “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 10, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
25. 
 “Project Management Unit” means a joint CATI/CBRN management unit 
operating under the coordination of CATI and located in the premises of CATI, 
to be created through a decree to be adopted and published by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 5.01(a) of this Agreement. 
26. 
 “Project Management Unit’s Regulation” means the Borrower’s decree in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank to be adopted and published for the 
creation of the Project Management Unit. 
27. 
 “Project Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower through a joint 
resolution, which shall contain, inter alia:  (i) the terms of reference, functions 
and responsibilities for the personnel of the Project Management Unit in charge 
of daily Project coordination and monitoring; (ii) the procedures for procurement 
of works, goods, services (other than consultants’ services) and consultants’ 
services for the Project and for the Subprojects, as well as for financial 
management and audits (i.e. financial audit and procurement audit) of the Project 
and of the Subprojects; (iii) flow and disbursement arrangements of Project 
funds; (iv) the eligibility criteria for the Subprojects, their selection and approval 
processes, the Restrictive List, as well as model forms for Grant Agreements; (v) 
the staffing plan for the Project Management Unit; (vi) the Environmental 
Management Framework, the Involuntary Resettlement Framework and the 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; (vii) the procedures for the screening, 
evaluation and monitoring of Subprojects, including under the Environmental 
Management Framework, the Involuntary Resettlement Framework and the 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and (viii) the monitoring and impact 
evaluation strategy. 
28. 
“Restrictive List” means a list of activities to be annexed to the Project 
Operational Manual and detailing all the types of Farmers’ Business Initiatives 
which cannot benefit from Grants under the Project. 
29. 
“SAA” means Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento do Estado de São 
Paulo, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply. 
30. 
“SMA” means Secretaria do Meio Ambiente do Estado de São Paulo, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Environment. 
31. 
“Small Farmers” means family farmers and Organizations with common 
interests, legally constituted in accordance with the Borrower’s and the 
 
- 23 - 
 
Guarantor’s law, whose Farmers’ Business Initiative has been found eligible in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual, and that 
have applied for financing and have received or are to receive a Grant under a 
Grant Agreement to be executed under Component 1 of the Project. 
32. 
“Steering Council” means a council (Conselho de Orientação) to be created 
through a decree to be adopted and published by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement in charge of the general oversight of the 
Project, including strategic decisions and comprising, inter alia, representatives 
from SAA, SMA, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning, and the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Finance. 
33. 
“Subprojects” means collectively Farmers’ Business Initiatives, Infrastructure 
Subprojects and Environmental Subprojects, all eligible subprojects under the 
Project as selected and approved by the Project Management Unit  in accordance 
with relevant provisions of the Project Operational Manual and to be partly 
financed with a Grant under a Grant Agreement for the activities set forth, 
respectively under Components 1 (a); 2(b); and 2(c) of the Project and to be 
carried out by Beneficiaries within the territory of Borrower. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
 
- 24 - 
 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
