CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7977-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Results and Accountability Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 14, 2010 
2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 14, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF PERU 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
(a) the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b)  
the Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness at the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance, or the person who shall be designated in writing as their representative, 
will serve as the representative of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02(a) of this 
Agreement and Article II of the General Conditions. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to The Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
2
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Rate; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of the General Conditions relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation (Originally Section 5.10 and renumbered as 
Section 5.08 pursuant to paragraph 3 Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement), the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
3
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;  
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that, a 
 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that, 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out 
the Program and with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on June 11, 2012.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the 
Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, represent the 
Borrower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are considered of an 
administrative and non-financial nature.  The signing by such Director of an 
amendment shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such 
amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.  
 
4
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile: 
(511) 626-9921 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU  
 
By /s/ Ismael Benavides Ferreyros 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
5
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds;  
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
1. 
Governance Reforms for Equity and Accountability in the Social Sectors:   
 
(a)   
The Borrower has: (i) caused RENIEC, through RENIEC resolution 
(“Resolución Jefatural”) No.472-2010-JNA/RENIEC of May 31, 2010, 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette “El Peruano” dated June 3, 
2010, and Memorandum No 001302-2010/SGEN/RENIEC dated 
September 20, 2010, to establish, inside its National Registry for 
Identification and Civil Status, a  national database of birth certificate 
data including Unique Personal Identity Numbers (“CUI”); and (ii) 
through Supreme Decree No. 183-2010-EF dated September 3, 2010 
issued by MEF and published in Borrower’s Official Gazette “El 
Peruano” on September 4, 2010, included in its Municipal Incentives 
Scheme (“PIM”), the incentives for said data to be remitted to RENIEC  
in a timely way;  
 
(b)  
The Borrower has, through MEF, as confirmed in the Explanatory 
Memorandum of the 2010 Budget Law (“Exposición de Motivos 2010”) 
annexed to Memorandum No. 034-2010-EF/76.02 dated September 16, 
2010, carried out the preparation of selected parts of its 2010 draft 
budget law based on a detailed analysis of progress towards the projected 
goals in the production of services, in intermediate outcomes and in final 
outcomes, for the strategic programs of the performance budgeting 
system, as applied to nutrition (articulado nutricional); maternal and 
neonatal health; learning outcomes; and citizens’ identity (identidad 
ciudadana). 
 
2. 
Standards and Accountability for Improved Outcomes in Education: 
 
(a)  
The Borrower has, through its Ministry of Education (“MINEDU”), as 
set 
forth 
in 
Official 
Letters 
(“Oficios”) 
No. 
079-2010 
ME/SPE/PLANMED/UMC dated September 1, 2010 and No. 082-2010 
ME/SPE/PLANMED/UMC dated September 17, 2010 signed by the 
“Director of Unidad de Medición de la Calidad”: (i) delivered in 2009 
and 2010 the results from the universal standard test (“UST”) for public 
and private schools and individual students, directly to said schools; and 
(ii) carried out a media campaign to advise parents to request their 
7
child’s scores and  encourage said schools to discuss their results and 
plan future related  improvements. 
 
3.      Standards and Accountability for Improved Outcomes in Health: 
 
(a)  
The Borrower has, through MEF, as an input to the planning process, and 
as per written confirmation received through Memorandum No. 034-
2010-EF/76.02 dated September 16, 2010 and Memorandum No. 079-
2010-EF/76.02 dated October 5, 2010, completed a census of all 
specialized birthing facilities (“FON centers”) in 13 (thirteen) of its high-
risk regions, thereby producing data on capacity, service quality and 
institutional births production; and 
 
(b)  
The Borrower has: (i) through SIS, as evidenced by Official Letters 
(“Oficios”) No. 1108-2010/SIS/J dated September 1, 2010 and No. 1311-
2010-SIS/J dated October 11, 2010, completed in 2008-2009 a pilot of 
budgetary transfers to health posts calculated on a per capita basis, linked 
to performance indicators in its Ayacucho, Apurimac and Cajamarca 
regions; and (ii) through, respectively, Executive Decree (“decreto de 
urgencia”) No. 048-2010 dated July 10, 2010 issued by the President of 
the Republic and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette “El 
Peruano” on July 11, 2010, Supreme Decree No. 177-2010 and its annex 
dated August 23, 2010 issued by the President of the Republic and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette “El Peruano” on August 
24, 2010, and Official Letter (“Oficio”) No. 1308-2010-SIS/J dated 
October 6, 2010, made an adjustment in the 2010 SIS budget, based on 
per capita costs for the insured population of the SIS, to enable it to meet 
the estimated cost of the implementation of the Universal Health 
Insurance Law (AUS) in pilot regions. 
 
4. 
Standards and Accountability for Improved Outcomes in Nutrition: 
 
The Borrower has, through MEF, as attested to by Memorandum No. 034-2010-
EF/76.02 dated September 16, 2010 and supported by copies of relevant budget 
lines for 2010, increased the 2010 budget for CREDs over the 2009 budget by 
330%, and selectively allocated said additional funds to the Borrower’s regions 
with a low level of CRED spending relative to their malnutrition levels. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
8
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan  
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Single Withdrawal 
Tranche 
50,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  
D.  
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the 
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program 
being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank and consistent with the Borrower’s public accounting and 
budgeting regulations. 
 
F. 
Excluded Expenditures.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
H. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 1, 2013. 
 
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 15, 2022 
35% 
October 15, 2022 
30% 
April 15, 2023 
35% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
10 
 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
11 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CRED” means Control de Crecimiento y Desarrollo, Child Growth and 
Development, a service provided by the Ministry of Health and introduced in the 
results-based-budgeting system of the Borrower as part of the Nutritional 
Strategic Program, which was started in 2008. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
12 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“MEF’ means, depending on the context, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy 
and Finance or the Minister in charge of said Ministry. 
 
5. 
“Municipal Incentive Plan” and “PIM” mean the Borrower’s plan established on 
January 11, 2010 through Decreto Supremo (DS) Nº 002-2010-EF published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette “El Peruano” on January 12, 2010, as a 
permanent mechanism for resource allocation to municipal governments to 
ensure the prompt delivery of information to the CUI database. 
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated October 6, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
7. 
“RENIEC” means Registro Nacional de Identificación y Estado Civil, the 
Borrower’s public entity with full legal personality in charge of organizing and 
administering the Borrower’s single registry of identification of natural persons 
established pursuant to Borrower’s Law No. 26497 dated July 12, 1995 and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette “El Peruano” on July 11, 1995. 
 
13 
 
8. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“SIS” means Seguro Integral de Salud, the Borrower’s Integrated Health 
Insurance System, established pursuant to Borrower’s Law No. 27657 dated 
January 17, 2002 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette “El Peruano”
on January 29, 2002.  
 
10. 
“Unique Personal Identity Numbers” and “CUI” means Código Único de 
Identidad, the Borrower’s system for attribution of a unique identity number to 
each new born in its territory. 
 
12.  
“Universal Health Insurance Law” and “AUS” means Ley de Aseguramiento 
Universal en Salud, as established in Borrower’s Law No. 29344 dated March 
30, 2009 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette “El Peruano” on April 
3, 2010. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
14 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
