CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7880-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Ningxia Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 22, 2010  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 22, 2010, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity (Ningxia) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’ REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to provide high-capacity and quality transport 
connections between targeted development zones and urban areas in Ningxia Hui 
Autonomous Region of the Borrower, as well as develop all-weather road access in 
selected rural areas of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. 
 
The Project consists of the following components: 
 
A. 
Guyaozi-Qingtongxia Expressway 
Construction of the four-lane Guyaozi-Qingtongxia Expressway with a total 
length of about 75.68km, including carrying out earthworks, acquisition and 
installation of electrical and mechanical equipment for, inter alia, traffic 
surveillance, communication and toll collection, and design and installation of 
traffic safety facilities.    
B. 
Road Network Improvements 
1. 
Improvement of Local Roads
Carrying out the Local Roads Improvement Program (LRIP) of Ningxia.    
 
2. 
Improvement of National Highway G211 
Rehabilitation of three sections of National Highway G211, totaling about 65km 
between Lingwu and Huianpu, including constructing a new pavement along the 
existing alignment and carrying out engineering measures to improve traffic 
safety conditions. 
 
C. 
Institutional strengthening 
 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to strength the institutional capacity of Ningxia 
in the transport sector through, inter alia: (a) carrying out of a study on road 
safety, a study for developing an optional long-term strategy for road 
maintenance, and a study for developing a comprehensive plan for the transport 
logistics industry in Ningxia; (b) carrying out of training on issues related to the 
transport sector in Ningxia; and (c) acquisition and utilization of equipment 
required for carrying out road maintenance in Ningxia. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Onlending Arrangements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity 
(Ningxia), the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the 
Project Implementing Entity (Ningxia) under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, which shall include the following:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.  
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the principal amount so 
made available; (B) the amount of the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement; and (C) the amount of the Premium paid pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
7
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures.  The provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply 
to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
8
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 
below, works costing less than US$20,000,000 equivalent per contract and goods 
costing less than US$1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded under National Competitive Bidding procedures, subject to the 
additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below.  
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for procuring goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines. 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except works contracts 
that are estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent but less than 
US$2,000,000 equivalent each or goods contracts that are estimated to 
cost less than US$300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or 
bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, 
a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date 
of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for submission of 
bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the 
deadline for such submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the employer in case of breach of contract by the contractor, 
and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such security. In place of a bid security, the bidding documents may 
requires that a bidder submit with its bid a signed declaration that, if the 
bidder withdraws its bid during the bid validity period or, if awarded the 
contract, the bidder fails to sign the contract or submit any required 
performance security before the deadline required in the bidding 
9
documents, the bidder will be suspended for a period of two years from 
being awarded any contract with the Borrower or Ningxia, including any 
of their departments, agencies or administrative units. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Borrower or Ningxia. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods if they can establish that 
they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate under 
commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency 
conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take 
place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
10 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national press or provincial press (as provided in 3(i) above) or official 
gazette or free and open access website and shall identify: (a) the name 
of each bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid 
opening; (c) the name and evaluated price of each evaluated bid; (d) the 
name of bidders who bids were rejected and the reasons for their 
rejection; and (e) the name and offered prices of the winning bidder as 
well as the duration and summary scope of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
Ningxia shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
4. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International and National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(c)  
Individual Consultants 
(d)  
Single Source Selection 
11 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5,000,000 or more per 
contract; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$500,000 or more per contract; and (c) each contract for consultants’ services 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 
or more for individual consultants. In addition, all Single Source Selection and 
the terms of reference for each consultant's contract shall be subject to Prior 
Review by the Bank. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by  
the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
12 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Works and goods for 
Eligible Activities under 
Part A of the Project  
 224,175,000 
85% 
 
(2) 
Works and goods for 
Eligible Activities under 
Part B of the Project  
25,200,000 
100% 
(3) 
Front-end Fee 
625,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(4) 
Premium on Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest rate 
Collar 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
  250,000,000 
 
3. 
For the purpose of this Schedule: (a) the term “Eligible Activities under Part A of 
the Project” means the activities related to: (i) the carrying out of subgrade and 
pavement works over a selected portion of the Expressway to be constructed 
under Part A of the Project; (ii) the erection and installation of certain electrical 
and mechanical systems over the length of the Expressway, including tolling, and 
monitoring and communication systems; and (iii) the construction of traffic 
facilities, all under contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as set 
out in the Legal Agreements and the Procurement Plan; and (b) the term 
“Eligible Activities under Part B of the Project” means the activities related to: 
(i) the carrying out of rehabilitation and upgrading of selected local roads 
included in the LRIP in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) 
the rehabilitation of three (3) sections of National Highway G211 selected in 
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, all under contracts to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as set out in the Legal Agreements and 
the Procurement Plan. 
 
13 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 10, 2010.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 
 
14 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies: 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
beginning September 15, 2015 through 
March 15, 2040 
 
2.00% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
15 
 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
16 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of Part A 
and B of the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and 
social impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) 
relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of 
income sources or means of  livelihood, whether or not such person must move 
to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally 
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the 
livelihood of such person; and “Displaced Persons” means collectively, all such 
Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated November 2009 duly 
adopted by the PIE and to be implemented by it, which Plan sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of Parts A and B.2 of the Project 
and related facilities, including access roads, construction camps, borrow pits, 
spoil disposal sites, resettlement sites, quarries and areas of temporary impact 
during construction, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of said plan, as the same may be revised from time to 
time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“ESF” means the Environmental Safeguards Framework dated November 2009 
duly adopted by the PIE and to be implemented by it for purposes of carrying out 
Part B.1 of the Project, including any other local roads that may be later included 
in the LRIP during Project implementation, and which sets out, inter alia:
(a) a framework with criteria, procedures and screening mechanism for 
developing and implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
mitigating the adverse environmental impacts resulting from the implementation 
of activities under said part of the Project, including adopting appropriate design 
criteria and standardized environmental specifications to be applied by 
contractors; (b) the guidelines for the preparation of environmental plans for 
mitigating adverse environmental impacts from the rehabilitation and upgrading 
17 
 
of any other local roads that may be later included in the LRIP; and (c) reporting, 
monitoring and training arrangements to ensure compliance with the ESF, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.   
 
7. 
“EP” means any environmental plan to be prepared by the PIE in accordance 
with the provisions of the ESF for any local roads other than those that are 
currently included in the LRIP.   
 
8. 
“Expressway” means the Guyaozi-Qingtongxia Expressway to be constructed 
under Part A of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“FDMLGO” means the Foreign Debt Management Leading Group Office 
established by Ningxia within its Finance Department and vested with authority 
to make all decisions relating to raising of financing for public sector projects in 
Ningxia and managing and supervising their implementation, including in respect 
of the Project. 
 
10. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual dated June 2009, adopted by 
the Project Implementing Entity for the purpose of implementing and monitoring 
the financial management aspects of the Project. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
12. 
“LRIP” means the Local Roads Improvement Program of Ningxia set out in the 
Feasibility Study Report of the Project approved by Ningxia Development and 
Reform Commission dated July 21, 2007, comprising 38 local roads to be 
improved with the objective of connecting all villages in the poorest counties of 
Ningxia to all-weather roads by 2015, and includes any other roads to be 
included in said Program by Ningxia during Project implementation. 
 
13. 
“NHAB” means the Ningxia Highway Administration Bureau operating under 
NTD and responsible for the operation and maintenance of all toll roads in 
Ningxia and for participating in implementing the relevant activities under Part C 
of the Project. 
 
14. 
“NHCAB” means the Ningxia Highway Construction and Administration Bureau 
established within NTD and responsible for the construction of all highway 
projects in Ningxia, including this Project.  
 
15. 
“Ningxia” means the Borrower’s Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. 
 
18 
 
16. 
“NTAB” means the Ningxia Transportation Administration Bureau operating 
under NTD and responsible for participating and implementing the relevant 
activities under Part C of the Project. 
 
17. 
“NTD” means the Ningxia Transportation Department, the functional department 
of Ningxia responsible for the overall development and implementation of the 
laws, policies and regulations related to the development and management of the 
transport industry in Ningxia. 
 
18. 
“PMO” means the Project Management Office established by NTD for the 
purpose of managing, coordinating and supervising the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated June 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
21. 
“Project Implementing Entity” and the acronym “PIE” mean Ningxia. 
 
22. 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated November 2009 duly adopted 
by the PIE and to be implemented by it for purposes of carrying out Parts A and 
B.2 of the Project, which plan sets out, inter alia: (a) the principles and 
procedures governing the acquisition of land required for said parts of the Project 
and related facilities, including access roads, construction camps, borrow pits, 
spoil disposal sites, resettlement sites and quarries; (b) actions and measures for 
the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement 
and rehabilitation; and (c) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes 
supplemental to said plan. 
 
23. 
“RP” means any resettlement plan to be prepared by the PIE in accordance with 
the provisions of the RPF. 
 
24. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework dated November 2009 duly 
adopted by the PIE and to be implemented by it in connection with the 
rehabilitation and upgrading of any other local roads that may be later included in 
the LRIP under Part B.1 of the Project and which sets out, inter alia: (a) a 
19 
 
framework with criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions 
and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts 
resulting from the implementation of said activities, including identifying land or 
other productive assets that may be required for said activities, and payment of 
compensation to, and the resettlement and rehabilitation of, Displaced Persons 
affected by said activities; (b) the guidelines for the preparation of resettlement 
plans for mitigating such impacts from said activities; and (c) reporting and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with the RPF, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the 
Conversion 
Guidelines.”
 
