CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7900-PK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Punjab Barrages Improvement Phase-II Project) 
 
Between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 18, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 18, 2010, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred forty five million six 
hundred thousand United States dollars (USD 145,600,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by Punjab in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that 
Punjab has failed to implement, monitor and supervise, incurred substantial 
delays, or unjustifiably suspended the implementation, monitoring or 
supervision, whether in whole or in part, momentarily or definitively, of the 
SDAP, EMP and, if applicable, the LARF and RAPs, required for the mitigation 
of the social and environmental impact of Project activities.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of the Economic Affairs 
Division, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, and/or any of the 
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that 
Division acting individually.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Phone:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-51-9210629  
92-51-9218976 
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Islamabad, Pakistan,   as of the day and year first  
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN  
 
By: /s/ Sibtain Fazal Halim 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Rachid Benmessaoud 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) rehabilitating and 
modernizing Jinnah Barrage, and the carrying out of affiliated works, to enable reliable 
and uninterrupted supply of water for over 2.1 million acres of farmland benefiting about 
600,000 farm families for irrigation and domestic water users; and (ii) building the 
institutional capacity of IPD to improve management of water resources and the irrigation 
system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Rehabilitation and Modernization of Jinnah Barrage
1. 
Carrying out of civil works for the rehabilitation and modernization of Jinnah 
Barrage, including : (a) the construction of a subsidiary weir about 600 feet 
downstream of the barrage’s main weir, and associated works to address 
retrogression and ineffective energy dissipation problems; (b) the repairs to the 
barrage floor, impact and friction blocks and guide banks; (c) alteration to the 
main barrage structure, such as extension of abutments and downstream divide 
walls; (d) the construction of river training works upstream to improve the river 
approach to the barrage; and (e) the preparatory works and renovation of the 
necessary building and management infrastructure.  
 
2. 
Carrying out of mechanical and electrical works for the rehabilitation and 
modernization of Jinnah Barrage consisting of: (a) the renovation of the barrage 
gates and hoist system and automation of gate operation; and (b) the upgrading of 
the barrage monitoring system, and basic operation and maintenance facilities.  
 
3. 
Implementation of the Social Development Action Plan, the Environmental 
Management Plan, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework and, if 
necessary, any Resettlement Action Plans. 
 
4. 
Management support and supervision of civil, electrical and mechanical works 
(including those in the Social Development Action Plan) for the rehabilitation 
and modernization of the Jinnah Barrage. 
 
Part B: Improvement and Modernization of the Irrigation and Water Management 
Systems
1. 
(i)       Upgrading and modernization of the Punjab Monitoring and Implementing        
Unit irrigation and water management systems, including: (a) 
development and implementation of modern databases with client 
interfaces; (b) update of monitoring and decision support systems through 
the adoption of GIS technology, and forecasting and planning models; (c) 
6
installation or adoption of new water measurement, accounting and 
transmission systems at key locations in the Indus river, and link canal 
system and main and branch canals; and (d) establishment of modern 
control/management rooms for the operation and management of Punjab’s 
canal systems. 
 
(ii) 
Provision of technical assistance, staff training and equipment, including 
hardware and software, discharge measurement equipment, echo-
sounders with geo-positioning systems for taking cross section of rivers 
and canals; and equipment for measuring water flows, stage and 
velocities. 
 
2. 
Preparation of feasibility studies and designs for prospective projects intended to 
further improve the irrigation and water management systems in Punjab.  
 
Part C: Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project Impact and Implementation of Social
and Environmental Management Plans
Monitoring and evaluating the Project’s impact including, inter alia: (a) the 
assessment of the Project’s socio-economic impact on neighboring communities 
and their productive activities and level of employment; (b) the assessment of the 
environmental impact of construction activities in the Project affected area; (c) 
the estimation of the Project’s overall benefits and economic rate of returns; (d) 
the phased transfer of operations and maintenance of irrigation assets to Farmers’ 
Organizations; (e) the supervision of implementation of the SDAP, EMP and, if 
triggered, the LARF and RAPs; and (f) the preparation of various reports related 
thereto.   
 
Part D: Project Management Coordination
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the IPD for the implementation and/or 
coordination of Project activities, in order to: (a) carry out the procurement and 
financial management processes under the Project; (b) implement the SDAP, 
EMP and, if triggered, the LARF and RAPs, as well as the communication 
strategies thereof; (c) operate the Project site and the provincial irrigation 
systems; (d) transform the Project Management Organization (PMO) into a 
barrages management organization; (e) improve Punjab’s asset management 
planning and budgeting expertise, and strengthen its legal, engineering and 
financial management capabilities in the water sector; (f) establish and coordinate 
an independent Panel of Experts (PoE) to supervise/validate Project designs, 
quality of construction and safety enhancement mesures for the Jinnah Barrage; 
and (g) provide technical assistances, training and the carrying out of strategic 
studies and pilot projects that may be identified during Project implementation 
for the improvement of water management.  
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to Punjab in accordance with the provision of this 
Agreement and the Borrower’s on-lending policies and budgetary procedures, 
and under financial terms and conditions identical to those provided for under 
this Agreement.  
 
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph (1) above, in the event that any of the provisions of 
this Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by 
notice to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule, were 
inconsistent with the budgetary procedures of the Borrower, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall govern. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards. 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Punjab shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with sound technical designs and in 
compliance with the Social Development Action Plan, the Environmental 
Management Plan, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, 
and, in the event that the Project give raise to Displaced Persons, the 
applicable Resettlement Action Plans; 
(b) 
commit its best efforts to maintain a constant and sufficient flow of water 
through the Thal Canal to meet the irrigation and household consumption 
requirements of the communities in the Thal Canal command area (other 
than the annual maintenance closure); 
(c) 
ensure that the Thal Canal annual maintenance closure does not exceed 
the average historical pattern of closure  period of approximately twenty 
one (21) days per year ; 
(d) 
implement a communication strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, to inform 
key stakeholders of constructions plans and advancement of civil works, 
8
any possible adverse effects, the remedial/mitigation measures to be 
implemented, and the stakeholders’ entitlements pursuant to the SDAP, 
EMP and RAPs, as the case may be; and 
(e) 
establish a grievance redressal mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, in 
order to receive and expeditiously handle any stakeholders’ complaints 
related to the Project.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and cause 
Punjab to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) above, the Borrower shall 
cause Punjab to prepare, by no later than March 31 of each year, commencing on 
March 31, 2011, and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, an annualized Project 
Report, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, integrating the 
Project Reports prepared under paragraph (1) above, covering the preceding 
calendar year, and comprising, inter alia: (i) an explanation of the progress 
achieved in Project implementation by component and sub-component; (ii) the 
implementation of the SDAP, EMP, LARF and RAPs, as the case may be; (iii) 
the status of key performance indicators and the operations of Jinnah Barrage, 
Thal Canal and other Project facilities; and (iv) the Annual Work Plan.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) and (2) above, the Borrower 
shall cause Punjab to: 
 
(a) 
prepare, by no later than October 31, 2013, and furnish to the Borrower 
and the Bank, a mid-term review report, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) above 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of such report, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2013, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the mid-term review report referred in sub-paragraph 
(a) above, and, thereafter, cause Punjab to take all measures required to 
9
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain and cause Punjab to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare, or cause Punjab to prepare, and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering said quarter of Project expenditures in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements for the Project’s operations 
resources and expenditures referred to above audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower 
and Punjab, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was 
made under the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
10 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding,  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)   National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional procedures set 
forth in the attachment to this Schedule) 
(b)  Community Participation (subject to the additional procedures set forth in 
the attachment to this Schedule) 
(c)   Shopping 
(d)   Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)   Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)   Individual Consultants 
(c)   Single Source Selection 
(d)   Selection under Fixed Budget 
(e)   Least-Cost Selection 
(f)   Quality-Based Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods or works procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding or Direct Contracting, regardless its value; (b) the first contract for 
works to be procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding by both each 
11 
 
implementing agency, regardless its value; (c) each contract for works procured 
on the basis of National Competitive Bidding estimated to cost the equivalent of 
USD200,000 or more; (d) the first contract for goods and the first contract for 
works procured on the basis of Shopping and Community Participation 
procedures, regardless their value; (e) the first consultancy contract to be entered 
with a firm, irrespective of its value, and thereafter all consultants’ services 
contracts to entered with firms estimated to costs USD100,000 or more; (f) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm and procured on the basis of 
Single Source Selection, regardless its value; and (g) the first consultancy 
contract to be entered with an individual consultant, irrespective of its value, and 
thereafter all consultants’ service contracts with individual consultants estimated 
to cost USD50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works for: 
(a) Part A.1 and A.2 of the 
Project: 
(b) Part A.3 of the Project: 
 
80,000,000 
 
2,000,000 
 
90% 
 
100% 
(2) Goods and services other 
than Consultants’ Services 
8,000,000 
100% 
12 
 
(3) Consultants’ Services  
18,000,000 
100% 
(4) Incremental 
Operating 
Costs, 
Workshops 
and 
Training 
8, 000,000 
100% 
(5) Front-end Fee 
364,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Interest during construction 
18,636,000 
Amounts payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.04 of this Agreement 
in accordance with 
Section 2.07(c) of the 
General Conditions, 
until December 31, 
2015 
(7) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps 
and 
Interest 
Rate 
Collars 
0
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07 of this Agreement, 
in accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of the 
General Conditions 
(8) Unallocated 
10,600,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
145,600,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD5,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 
2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
 
ATTACHMENT TO SCHEDULE 2 
 
13 
 
Improvement of Bidding Procedures under 
 National Competitive Bidding and Community Participation 
The following improvements in bidding procedures will apply to all 
procurements of Goods and Works under National Competitive Bidding and Community 
Participation, in order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency 
with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:  
(a) 
For National Competitive Bidding: 
(i) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of bids;  
(ii) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee;  
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;  
(iv) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;  
(v) 
Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;  
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;  
(vii) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank;  
(viii) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained;  
(ix) 
Bids shall be solicited and works contracts shall be awarded on the basis 
of unit prices;  
(x) 
Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated 
rates;  
(xi) 
Single bid shall also be considered for award; 
(xii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder;  
14 
 
(xiii) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders;   
(xiv) 
draft NCB contracts shall be reviewed by the Bank in accordance with 
the prior review procedures; 
(xv) 
State-owned enterprises shall be eligible to bid only if they can establish 
that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Recipient; 
(xvi) 
A firm declared ineligible by the Bank, based on a determination by the 
Bank that the firm has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive 
or obstructive practices in competing for or in executing a Bank-financed 
contract, shall be ineligible to be awarded a Bank-financed contract 
during the period of time determined by the Bank. 
(xvii) The Bank shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated 
period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time 
determines that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by the Bank; and 
 
(xviii) Each contract financed from the proceeds of a Loan shall provide that the 
suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its 
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance 
of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and material violation by the 
supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such provision may amount to 
obstructive practice.  
 
(b) 
For Community Participation: 
 
(i) 
works estimated to cost less than USD30,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded to 
organizations of communities benefiting from these works; and 
 
(ii) 
the basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank to be executed for 
each such contract shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the apportionment of costs, the 
execution of the work, the required completion date, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. 
 
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 
15
Beginning September 15, 2016 
through September 15, 2030 
 
3.33% 
On March 15, 2031 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
16 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
17 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Work Plan” means the time-bound program of Project activities, to be 
prepared on an annual basis pursuant to sub-paragraph 3(a) of Section I.B of the 
Project Agreement.  
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons. 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” means Punjab’s 
action plan, dated November 2009, setting out mitigation measures, including, 
inter alia, monitoring, communication and documentation, waste disposal, traffic 
management, and emergency response and contingency plans, in order to address 
any adverse environmental impacts that might originate from the Project. 
.
7. 
“Farmers’ Organizations” means the organizations formed, or to be formed, at 
the level of a distributary/minor canal, and registered under the Punjab Irrigation 
and Drainage Authority Act (1997) (No. XI of 1997, dated July 2, 1997), as 
amended and/or regulated to the date of this Agreement.  
 
8. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual dated February 28, 2010, 
setting forth, inter alia, the policies and procedures for funds and asset 
management, withdrawal applications and settlement of payments, accounting, 
maintenance of records, reporting regimes, security protocols, and auditing 
requirements applicable to the Project. 
 
18 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
10. 
“GIS” means a geographic information system integrating software and hardware 
for capturing, managing, analyzing and displaying geographically referenced 
information. 
 
11. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of the incremental 
expenditures incurred by Punjab in relation to the Project, which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project, including, inter alia: (i) office 
rental and utilities fees; (ii) office staples, and office equipment’s operation and 
maintenance; (iii) vehicles rental, operation and maintenance; (iv) in-country 
travel allowance for the PSC and PMO staff; (v) banking services and insurance 
costs; (vi) advertisement, communication and dissemination expenses; (vii) 
translation and printing costs; and (viii) salaries, allowances and other 
emoluments of incremental Project staff.  However, the term “Incremental 
Operating Costs” does not include salaries or salary supplements of the 
Borrower’s or Punjab’s civil servants. 
 
12. 
“IPD” means the Irrigation and Power Department of the Province of Punjab, and 
any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Jinnah Barrage” means the barrage located across the Indus river in the 
Mianwali District of the Province of Punjab, at 32° 55.1846’ North and 71° 
31.1812’ East. 
 
14. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework” and the acronym “LARF” 
mean Punjab’s framework document, dated November 2009, setting out the 
institutional arrangements, policy principles and objectives, and protocols for: (i) 
screening Project activities in order to determine if the implementation thereof 
might give rise to Displaced Persons; (ii) determining the eligibility for 
compensatory measures; (iii) preparing Resettlement Action Plans and 
supervising and evaluating the implementation thereof; and (iv) establishing and 
administering a grievance settlement mechanisms. 
 
15. 
“M&E Consultants” means the monitoring and evaluation consulting firms to be 
hired by Punjab pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section I.A of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.  
 
16. 
“Panel of Experts” and the acronym “PoE” mean the independent panel to be 
established pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section I.A of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement.  
 
19 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Manual” means the manual dated April 9, 2010, setting out, inter 
alia: (i) the processing and approval procedures to be followed by the 
implementing agencies in the procurement of goods, works and services under 
the Project; (ii) the allocation of procurement responsibilities, including the 
constitution of evaluations committees and designation of appointing authorities; 
and (iii) the timeframe and criteria for procurement approvals/reviews, as such 
manual shall be updated from time to time with the prior concurrence of the 
Bank. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 28, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity” and “Punjab” mean the Borrower’s Province of 
Punjab. 
 
21. 
“Project Management Organization” and the acronym “PMO” mean project 
management unit established and operating within the IPD pursuant to letter from 
the Secretary (IDP) No. DEV-8-S.O(Prog.)/2000, dated June 26, 2004, in 
accordance with the Chief Minister’s approval No. 5604, dated June 22, 2004, 
and referred to in sub-paragraph 1.(b) of Section I.A of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.  
 
22. 
“Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit” and the acronym “PMIU” mean 
the unit established and operating within the IPD pursuant to letter from the 
Secretary IPD No. S.O (B)(I&P)/2005-06, dated October 27, 2005, in accordance 
with the Chief Miniter’s approval No. 9631, dated October 21, 2005, and referred 
to in sub-paragraph 1.(c) of Section I.A o the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Project Steering Committee” and the acronym “PSC” mean the committee to be 
established and operating to paragraph 1.(a) of Section I.A of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
24. 
“Punjab” mean the Borrower’s Province of Punjab, and the Project Implementing 
Entity for purposes of the General Conditions. 
20 
 
25. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” and the acronym “RAPs” mean collectively the 
resettlement plans to be prepared in accordance with the LARF and the provision 
of Section I.D.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which plans set out 
the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance therewith. 
 
26. 
“Social Development Action Plan” and the acronym “SDAP” mean Punjab’s 
action plan, dated November 2009, setting out mitigation measures and a 
program of social development assistance (including minor infrastructure 
development, a seed distribution program, protection of physical cultural 
property and public health plans) in order to address any adverse social impacts 
that might originate from the Project and/or enhance the benefits derived from 
the Project. 
 
27. 
“Thal Canal” means the canal off taking from Jinnah Barrage providing water for 
irrigation and household consumption to the districts of Mianwali, Khushab, 
Bhakkar, Layyah, Muzaffargarh. 
 
28. 
“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable costs of training, workshops 
and conferences conducted in the territory of the Borrower, or attended abroad by 
implementing agencies’ officials and staff, including purchase and publication of 
materials, rental of facilities, course fees and travel and subsistence of trainees.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions] 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or Punjab ineligible to receive proceeds of any 
financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to participate in the 
preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the 
Bank or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or Punjab has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any 
financing made by the Bank or the Association.” 
21 
 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
