 
  
  
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7869-BR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(São Paulo Metro Line 4 (Phase 2) Project - 
Empreendimento Linha 4 – Amarela do Metrô de São Paulo) 
 
between 
 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 27, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
  
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated September 27, 2010, between the STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
WHEREAS by an agreement (the Co-financing Agreement) to be entered into 
with the Co-financier (as defined in this Agreement), the Borrower has agreed to contract 
a loan in the amount of one hundred and thirty million Dollars  ($130,000,000) to assist 
in financing the Project, on terms and conditions set forth in the Co-financing Agreement.  
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and thirty million 
Dollars ($130,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist partially in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Secretary of Finance. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
- 2 - 
  
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor and through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National 
Treasury, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the 
Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of 
the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
  
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower: (i) shall carry out Part B (ii) of the Project through STMSP; and 
(ii) shall cause Part A and Part B (i) of the Project to be carried out by SP Metro, 
- 3 - 
  
pursuant of the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement and under the general 
coordination of STMSP.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that SP 
Metro has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement to an extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and 
adversely affect the achievement of the Project objective, and the Borrower has 
not taken measures to comply in full with said obligations. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto, and said 
agreement is in full force and effect. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the SP Metro and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
the SP Metro in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
which expire on November 4, 2011.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Governor.   
 
- 4 - 
  
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda 
Avenida Rangel Pestana 300 – 5º andar 
São Paulo - SP  01017-911 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3243-3296 
 
 
With copies to: 
 
Secretaria dos Transportes Metropolitanos – STM 
Secretário dos Transportes Metropolitanos 
Rua Boa Vista 175, Bloco B – 10º Andar 
São Paulo - SP 01014-001  
  
Facsimile: (55-11) 3291-2110 
 
 
Companhia do Metropolitano de São Paulo – METRÔ 
Presidência 
Rua Boa Vista 175, Bloco B – 7° Andar 
São Paulo - SP  01014-001 
  
Facsimile: (55-11) 3291-2810 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
  
AGREED at São Paulo, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Alberto Goldman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 - 
  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality of service provided to 
the urban transport users in the area of influence of the new Line 4 stations (São Paulo-
Morumbi, Fradique Coutinho, Oscar Freire, Higienópolis-Mackenzie and Vila Sônia), 
and (b) to facilitate the integration between metro and bus at those stations.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment 
 
Provision of financing for: (i) completion of the works of the four stations of Line 
4 initiated during the Line 4 Phase 1 Project; (ii) construction of one new station (Vila 
Sônia) and its access tunnel of about 1.5 km extension; (iii) construction of additional 
facilities at the Vila Sônia yard; and (iv) acquisition and installation of escalators, platform 
doors, and signaling and telecommunication systems necessary to operate the stations 
referred to in (i) and (ii) above. 
 
Part B:  Technical Assistance 
 
Provision of technical assistance for: (i) the management oversight and 
supervision of the carrying out of Part A of the Project; (ii) the carrying out of specific 
studies or assessments required during the execution the Project, including, inter alia, a 
study for estimating carbon emissions reduction due to the implementation of Line 4.  
 
 
- 7 - 
  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the execution and until 
completion of the Project, a unit within STMSP to be responsible for the overall 
coordination of the Project (the “PCU”), such PCU to have structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank, and with staff in adequate numbers and with 
adequate qualifications, for the purposes of assisting STMSP in the general 
coordination of the Project implementation. The PCU shall be headed at all times 
by a coordinator with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, who shall report directly to the Borrower’s Secretary of 
Metropolitan Transport.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause SP Metro through the Subsidiary Agreement to 
maintain, at all times during the execution and until completion of the Project, a 
unit (the PMU) with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for 
the purposes of assisting the SP Metro in the carrying out of its responsibilities 
under the Project, including those related to procurement of works and 
consultants’ services under the Project, Loan disbursements, Project financial 
management, and Project monitoring, evaluation and reporting. Such unit shall 
be headed at all times by a coordinator with qualifications, experience, functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, who shall report directly to the 
President of the SP Metro.   
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through STMSP, shall enter into an agreement (the “Subsidiary 
Agreement”) with SP Metro, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, 
which shall include, inter alia: (i) SP Metro’s undertaking to comply with the 
safeguards, fiduciary and technical requirements applicable to the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of this agreement; (ii) SP Metro’s undertaking to 
comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and (iii) the 
Borrower’s undertaking to make the necessary proceeds of the Loan available to 
SP Metro to carry out the Project. 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
  
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Environmental and Social Provisions 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through STMSP, shall carry out, and shall cause SP 
Metro to carry out, the Project in accordance with the provisions and 
recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment, the Addendum to 
the EIA, the Resettlement Plan and the new Abbreviated Resettlement Plan.  
 
2.       The Borrower, through STMSP, shall cause SP Metro to ensure that any 
contractors that will carry out civil works under the Part A of the Project shall 
perform their work in accordance with the technical and environmental practices 
applicable to the Project, as set forth in the Environmental Impact Assessment, 
the Addendum to the EIA, the Resettlement Plan and the new Abbreviated 
Resettlement Plan.  
 
E. 
Operational Manual 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the “Operational Manual”), 
which shall detail the procedures and guidelines for the execution, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project, including, inter alia the procedures for the carrying 
out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project (including disbursement, financial 
management and auditing).  
 
2. 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In case of any conflict or inconsistency 
between the terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than two months after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through STMSP, shall maintain and shall cause SP Metro to 
maintain a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause SP Metro to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 60 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the pertinent quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause SP Metro to have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.    
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Works, goods and non-consultant services.   All works, goods and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
- 10 - 
  
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-consultant 
 
services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Works and goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.   
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-consultant 
services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for works, goods and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used.  
 
Procurement Method  
 
National Competitive Bidding, including in respect of goods, works and non-
consultant services, concorrência (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 8666 of 
June 21, 1993), in respect of goods and non-consultant services, pregão 
eletrônico (set forth in the Guarantor’s Law Nº 10520 of July 17, 2002), under 
‘COMPRASNET’, the procurement portal of the Guarantor, or any other e-
procurement system approved by the Bank, subject to the following additional 
procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank.  
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS)  
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications (CQS)  
(c) Least Cost Selection (LCS) 
(d) Single-Source Selection (SSS) 
(e) Quality-based Selection (QBS) 
(f) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
- 11 - 
  
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Works, Goods and 
Non-consultant 
services 
for Part A of the Project 
 
 
121,942,000 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ services 
for Part B of the Project 
 
 
7,733,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
325,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(4) Premia for Interest 
Rate  
Caps and Interest 
Rate  
Collars 
 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement  
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
130,000,000 
 
- 12 - 
  
For purposes of this table, the term “Non-consultant services” means reasonable 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower for services under the Project related to, inter alia, 
geotechnical testing and surveying and instrumentation analysis. 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $26,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made within one year prior to this date but on or after 
February 28, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30th, 2014. The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank 
that it agrees with such extension. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
A. 
The Borrower shall, within the limits of its authority, commit to preserve the 
CDTI and BUI at all times during execution and until the completion of the 
Project, in the present or other format as long as it continues to enhance the 
mobility and affordability of metropolitan transport for users, particularly those 
of low-income. In addition, the Borrower shall undertake its best efforts to extend 
the BUI to other modes of transportation and expand the CDTI to include other 
municipalities of the SPMR. 
 
B. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures in a timely manner to ensure the 
operation of Line 4 to achieve the Indicators agreed with the Bank. 
- 13 - 
  
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2015 
 
through April 15, 2040 
 
2% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
- 14 - 
  
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
- 15 - 
  
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Abbreviated Resettlement Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, dated June 30, 
2009 and disclosed at SP Metro’s website at www.metro.sp.gov.br, for the 
resettlement of the population to be displaced because of the carrying out works 
included in Part A of the Project that were not covered by the Resettlement Plan.  
 
2. 
“Addendum to the EIA” means the assessment, dated July 16, 2009, and 
disclosed at SP Metro’s website at www.metro.sp.gov.br of the environmental 
and social impacts of the carrying out the works of Part A of the Project that were 
not included in the Line 4 Phase 1 Project, which includes a revised and updated 
environmental mitigation plan and the Abbreviated Resettlement Plan. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“BUI” means Bilhete-Único Integrado, an integrated single fare electronic ticket 
which within a two-hour period allows the integration of transport modes, with 
one trip over the rail based system and up to three bus trips within the São Paulo 
municipality bus transport system. 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“CDTI” means Comitê Diretor de Transporte Integrado, the Borrower’s 
integrated transport coordination committee, created on May 11, 2006 through a 
protocol signed by the STMSP and the São Paulo Secretary of Municipal 
Transport to ensure the technical and institutional cooperation for the 
implementation of actions to promote the integration of policies, plans, projects 
and programs of the public transport systems and traffic management in the 
SPMR. 
7. 
“Co-financier” means the financiers (as defined in the Co-financing Agreement 
as lenders) and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), referred to 
in paragraph 15 of the Appendix to the General Conditions. 
 
8. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of one hundred and thirty million U.S. Dollars 
($130,000,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the 
Project. 
 
- 16 - 
  
9. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the loan agreement referred to in the Whereas 
clause, to be entered into between the Borrower and the Co-financier providing 
for the Co-financing. 
 
10. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means the assessment, contained in the 
Borrower’s report dated July 27, 2001, of the environmental and social impacts 
of the carrying out of Part A of the Line 4 Phase 1 Project, which includes the 
Environmental Mitigation Plan and the Resettlement Plan. 
 
12. 
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, set forth in the 
Environmental Impact Assessment, for the mitigation of the environmental 
impacts of the carrying out of Part A of the of Line 4 Phase 1 Project. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
14. 
“Indicators” means the impact, performance and implementation indicators 
agreed with the Bank and set forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith, 
as such letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
15. 
“Line 4” means the line of the SP Metro which will link the SP Metro’s Vila 
Sonia yard facility to the SP Metro’s Luz station and will include the following 
stations: Vila Sonia, São Paulo Morumbi, Butantã, Pinheiros, Faria Lima, 
Fradique Coutinho, Oscar Freire, Paulista, Mackenzie-Higienópolis, República 
and Luz. 
  
16. 
“Line 4 Phase 1 Project” means the Project as described in the Loan Agreement 
between the State of São Paulo and the Bank, dated June 25, 2002, corresponding 
to the Loan Number 4636-BR. 
 
17. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I. E of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, dated September 22, 2009, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.   
 
18. 
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement; 
 
19. 
“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement; 
- 17 - 
  
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 10, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
22. 
“Resettlement Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, set forth in the Environmental 
Impact Assessment, as such plan was updated in November 2001, for the 
resettlement of the population to be displaced because of the carrying out of Part 
A of the Line 4 Phase 1 Project. 
 
23. 
“SP Metro” means Companhia do Metropolitano de São Paulo - METRÔ, the 
Borrower’s subway transportation company, created by São Paulo Municipality 
Law (Lei Municipal) Nº 6988 of December 26, 1966, as amended to date. 
 
24. 
“SPMR” means São Paulo metropolitan region, an area comprising the following 
municipalities of the Borrower: Arujá, Barueri, Biritiba-Mirim, Cajamar, 
Caieiras, Carapicuiba, Cotia, Diadema, Embú, Embú-Guaçu, Ferraz de 
Vasconcelos, Francisco Morato, Franco da Rocha, Guararema, Guarulhos, 
Itapevi, Itaquaquecetuba, Itapecerica da Serra, Jandira, Juquitiba, Mairiporã, 
Mauá, Mogi das Cruzes, Osasco, Pirapora do Bom Jesus, Poá, Ribeirão Pires, 
Rio Grande da Serra, Salesópolis, Santa Isabel, Santana do Parnaíba, Santo 
André, São Bernardo do Campo, São Caetano do Sul, São Lourenço da Serra, 
São Paulo, Suzano, Taboão da Serra and Vargem Grande Paulista. 
 
25. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I. B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower, through STMSP, 
shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to SP Metro.  
 
26. 
“STMSP” means Secretaria dos Transportes Metropolitanos, the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Metropolitan Transport. 
 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
- 18 - 
  
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
