CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7934-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Xinjiang Turpan Water Conservation Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 5, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 5, 2010 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined and modified in the Appendix to this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity (Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region) in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – TERMINATION 
 
3
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Xinchen District 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland  
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to mitigate the risk of flooding, reduce 
groundwater overdraft, increase industrial and domestic water supply, and raise farmers’ 
income from irrigated agriculture in the arid Turpan Basin of Xinjiang Uygur 
Autonomous Region. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts to be carried out in the Project 
Counties/City, subject to modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1:  ET-based Integrated Water Management in the Turpan Basin 
 
Carrying out of an integrated river basin management program for the Turpan Basin 
including, inter alia:
(a) 
implementation of measures for the management of consumptive use in a basin-
wide basis, supported by an internet-based knowledge management system with 
the ET data measured by remote sensing technology to derive and allocate the 
annual targets of consumptive use of water for industrial, domestic, agriculture 
and ecosystem uses in each city/county;  
 
(b) 
assessment of the inter-seasonal connections of water availability for irrigation to 
farmers (including the change of the upstream inflows to reservoirs due to the 
possible increase of snow melting in the mountain areas) due to climate change, 
and identification of changes needed to the operational rules of reservoirs as per 
the results of such assessment;  
 
(c) 
development of a supplementary plan to the Irrigated Agriculture Water Saving 
Program to allow for the rational allocation of ET targets for irrigated agriculture 
at the Basin level to the respective county, and then to the township and WUA 
level;  
 
(d) 
establishment of at least 43 WUAs; and 
 
(e) 
establishment of a new water rights system based on consumptive use and  
compensation programs for reallocation of consumptive use.  
 
Part 2: Increase of Upstream Storage Capacity  
 
Construction of:  
 
(a)   
the Alagou Dam;  
7
(b) 
the Meiyaogou Dam;  and  
 
(c)  
the Ertanggou Dam. 
 
Part 3: Real Water Savings in Irrigated Agriculture  
 
Carrying out of irrigation management measures in the Turpan Basin including inter alia:
(a)  
engineering measures such as construction or rehabilitation of the main canals 
delivering water from the three (3) new reservoirs to water users downstream, a 
switch from furrow to drip irrigation, land leveling, canal lining, and improved 
drainage;  
 
(b)  
agronomic measures such as cropping pattern changes, plant breeding, soil 
fertility and fertilization, soil salinity control, plastic-culture with mulching, 
tunnels and greenhouses, and tillage and weed control; and 
 
(c)  
other irrigation management measures such as irrigation scheduling, volumetric 
water charges, increase of water charges, and the conjunctive use of surface and 
groundwater.   
 
Part 4: Preservation of a Karez Water System  
 
Rehabilitation of a Karez Water System in Turpan City. 
 
Part 5: Institutional Capacity Building and Project Management  
 
Provision of technical assistance and support for Project management, including, inter 
alia:
(a) 
training, workshops, and domestic and overseas study tours on integrated water 
resources management, the ET management concept, management of irrigation 
water with ET-based irrigation water rights, the formation and functioning of 
WUAs in the areas of the Turpan Basin irrigation areas, monitoring and 
evaluation, management information systems, operation and maintenance for 
irrigation systems, and the safeguards, procurement and financial management 
requirements of the Project; 
 
(b)  
provision of office equipment for Project management and supervision; 
 
(c)  
carrying out of measures for the enforcement of the new water rights system to 
be established under the Project; and 
 
(d)  
support for Project management and supervision.  
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other 
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium 
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General 
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of twenty-four (24) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of ten (10) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
9
period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than March 15 and September 15 in each year, starting on March 15, 2011.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part 
of the Project Reports by not later than March 15 and September 15 in each year 
after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for 
the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have the Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements 
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months 
after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
10 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.  In addition, the procedures to be 
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in 
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic 
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall 
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
11 
 
(iv) All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: 
(A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and 
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall 
not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake 
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents 
or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a 
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
12 
 
(xii) All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall 
not take place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered price 
of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope 
of the awarded contract.   
 
(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity shall have in place provisions 
for bidders to protest. 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c) 
Community Participation following procedures satisfactory to the Bank 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single-source Selection 
(d)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
13 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance:  
 
(a) 
the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General 
Conditions;  
 
(b) 
if applicable, the Premium for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars 
in accordance with Section 2.07(c) of the General Conditions; and  
 
(c) 
other Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
14 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed  
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works for: 
 
(a) the Ertanggou Dam; 
 
(b) the Meiyaogou Dam; 
 
(c) the Alargou Dam; and 
 
(d) the canals under Part 3(a) 
of the Project and the 
Karez Water System  
 
22,006,000 
 
15,325,000 
 
22,864,000 
 
6,897,000 
 
64% 
 
87% 
 
80% 
 
88% 
 
(2)  Goods (other than for WUAs 
Grants) 
29,695,000 
 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services and 
Training  
2,820,000 
100% 
(4) WUA Grants 
143,000 
100% 
(5) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 
2.07(b) of the General 
Conditions 
(6) Premium for Interest Rate 
Caps or Interest Rate Collars 
0
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
 
15 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  $500,000 may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after May 11, 2010, for Eligible 
Expenditures.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2017. 
 
16 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  
 
(a)  
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by  
 
(b)  
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15  and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2020  
 
through August 15, 2033 
 
3.57% 
On February 15, 2034 
3.61% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
17 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either:  
 
(a) 
the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or  
 
(b) 
if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, 
the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
18 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Alargou Dam” means the dam in the Borrower’s Tuokexun County. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.  
 
5. 
“Dam” means any of the Project Dams or the Existing Dams. 
 
6. 
“Dam Safety Plan” means the following plans and report prepared by the the 
Prefecture, all dated March 15, 2010 which set out measures for safety of Dams, 
as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Bank: 
 
(a) 
Operation, Maintenance and Surveillance Plan;  
 
(b) 
Emergency Preparedness Plan;  
 
(c) 
Construction, Supervision and Quality Enhancement Plan;  
 
(d) 
Instrumentation Plan; and  
 
(e) 
Dam safety report. 
 
7. 
“Dam Safety Regulations” means: (a) the Borrower’s regulations for reservoir 
dam safety management and review; and (b) the Borrower’s guidelines for 
implementation of emergency preparedness plans, and for construction, 
operation, maintenance and surveillance of dams, all dated March 15, 2010 and 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be applied with respect to the Existing Dams and the 
Project Dams as the case may be.  
 
8. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
19 
 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
9. 
The acronym “DSP” means the panel of independent experts referred to in 
Section I.3(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
10. 
The acronym “DSR” means any of the dam safety reports to be prepared by the 
Prefecture and furnished to the Bank in accordance with Dam Safety Plan and 
Dam Safety Regulations with respect to the Existing Dams and the Project Dams. 
 
11. 
The acronym “EG” means any of the Expert Groups referred to in  
Section I.A.1(e) and (h) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
12. 
The acronym “EMDP” means the Ethnic Minorities Development Plan prepared 
by the Prefecture and dated April 10, 2010 which sets out features that have been 
incorporated in the Project design to ensure equitable opportunities for local 
ethnic minorities to participate in and benefit from the Project.  
 
13. 
The acronym “EMPs” means, collectively, the Environmental Management 
Plans, all prepared by the Prefecture and dated March 12, 2010, which set out, 
with respect to the Project, measures for the protection of the environment; 
conservation of, and mitigation against adverse impact on, natural habitats or 
their functions; and avoidance of, or mitigation against, adverse impact on 
physical cultural resources, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be 
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
The acronym “EMP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
14. 
The acronym “ET” or “Evapotranspiration” means the sum of evaporation and 
plant transpiration from the earth’s land surface to the atmosphere. 
 
15. 
“Ertanggou Dam” means the dam in the Borrower’s Shanshan County. 
 
16. 
“Existing Dams” means the Kekeya, Kanerqi, Putaogou and Yaernaizi dams 
located upstream of the Turpan Basin. 
 
17. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
20 
 
18. 
“Irrigated Agriculture Water Saving Program” means the Prefecture’s program 
described in the 11th five-year plan for water resources development of Turpan 
Prefecture dated March 13, 2007. 
 
19. 
“Karez Water System” means a water system developed by the Turpan people 
and made up of a horizontal series of runoff from the base of the Tian Shan 
Mountains and the nearby Flaming Mountains with canals channeling the water 
to the surface, taking advantage of the current provided by the gravity of the 
downward slope of the Turpan depression. 
 
20. 
“Meiyaogou Dam” means the dam in the Borrower’s Turpan City. 
 
21. 
The acronym “PLGO” means the Project leading group office referred to in 
Section I.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Pest Management Plan” or “PMP” means the plan prepared by the Prefecture 
and dated February 1, 2010 which sets out, with respect to the Project, measures 
for the management of pesticides, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be 
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
23. 
The acronym “PLG” means any of the Project Leading Groups referred to in 
Section I.A.1(a), (c) and (f) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
24. 
The acronym “PMO” means any of the Project Management Offices referred to 
in Section I.A.1(d) and (g) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Prefecture” means the Turpan Prefecture and any successor thereto. 
 
26. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
27. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 26, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
28. 
“Project Counties/City” means, individually, the Borrower’s Tuokexun County, 
the Shanshan County and the Turpan City, and any successor thereto; and 
“Project Counties/Cities” means, collectively, all such counties and cities. 
 
29. 
“Project Dams” means, collectively, the Ertanggou Dam, the Meiyaogou Dam; 
and the Alagou Dam; and “Project Dam” means, individually, any of such 
Project Dams. 
21 
 
30. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Xinjiang Uygur 
Autonomous Region and any successor thereto.  
 
31. 
“Project Participant” means any of the Project Counties/City and the Prefecture. 
 
32. 
The acronym “RAPs” means, collectively, the following plans which set out the 
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and 
the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on 
account of the execution of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank: 
 
(a) 
the Resettlement Action Plan, dated September 15, 2009 to be carried out 
as needed for the construction of the Ertanggou Dam under Part 2 of the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
the Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plans, all dated September 15, 
2009 to be carried out as needed for the construction of the Alagou Dam 
and the Meiyaogou Dam under Part 2 of the Project.  
 
The acronym “RAP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
33. 
“Regional” means within the jurisdiction of Xinjiang. 
 
34. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of each Project Participant, 
activities under the Project to be carried out within its jurisdiction. 
 
35. 
“Training” means 
for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per diem for trainees 
attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars and the cost of 
delivering training (excluding consultants fees) such as rental of training space 
and training equipment and other logistical costs. 
 
36. 
“Turpan Basin” or “Basin” means the basin of the Turpan river covering the 
counties of Shanshan and Tuokexun and the city of Turpan. 
 
37. 
The acronym “WUA” means a water user association operating in the Turpan 
Basin. 
 
38. 
“WUA Grant” means a grant made by the Project Counties/City to a WUA under 
the terms of the WUA Grant Agreements to finance the reasonable costs of the  
operation of the WUA, such as office furniture, supplies, equipment and other 
operating expenses, all approved annually by the Bank, on the basis of a budget 
provided by the WUA. 
22 
 
39. 
“WUA Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in  
Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
40. 
“Xinjiang” means the Borrower’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region or any 
successor thereto. 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05. Eligible Expenditures 
(a) 
the payment is for the financing of the reasonable goods, works, 
services, Training and WUA Grants (as said terms are defined in the Loan 
Agreement) required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and procured, all in accordance with the provisions of the Legal 
Agreements;”. 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l)  
Ineligibility.
The Bank or the Association has declared the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity 
ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the 
Association or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of 
any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a 
result of: (i) a determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or 
the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another 
financier that the Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project 
Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such 
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any 
project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
23 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
24 
 
Footnotes:
“13.  
An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14.  
Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15.  
The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for 
the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions 
Board sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the 
Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in 
implementing debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-
debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known 
to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
