CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7895-EG 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Giza North Power Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 4, 2010 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7895-EG 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 4, 2010, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (the “Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Project Implementing Entity, the Egyptian Electricity Holding 
Company (EEHC). 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, for each Interest Period shall be at 
a rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
- 2 -
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions.  
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the 
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect of the Loan. 
 
- 3 -
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity (EEHC) in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
This Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that 
all necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been entered into between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
4.03. 
The Additional Legal Matter is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
duly authorized by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
4.04. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement, or such later date established by the Bank in 
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the Assistant to 
the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 
 
- 4 -
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8 Adly Street, 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
(202) 2391-5167 
- 5 -
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Shamshad Akhtar 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to improving the security and 
efficiency of electricity supply within the Borrower’s territory by adding new generation 
capacity based on efficient thermal power generation technology.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:
The Giza North Power Plant
1. 
Design, construction and commissioning of a combined cycle gas turbine power 
plant at Giza North with a total installed capacity of 1,500 MW to be fueled by 
natural gas and by light diesel oil on a back-up basis. The power plant design 
includes two identical 750-MW modules comprised of two 250-MW gas turbines 
(with an electricity generator for each turbine), two multi-pressure heat-recovery 
steam generators, and one 250-MW steam turbine driving an electricity 
generator. Auxiliary equipments include step-up transformers, a switchyard, and 
other required auxiliary systems.  
 
2. 
Construction of: (a) transmission lines to connect the said power plant to the 
national transmission grid; and (b) a gas pipeline to connect the said power plant 
to the gas pipeline system to secure adequate supply of gas for sustainable 
operation of the power plant. 
Part B:
Support for the Energy Sector
Provision of technical assistance for inter alia: (1) promoting private sector 
investment in electricity generation; (2) developing the Borrower’s medium to 
long term strategy to attract private sector investment in the Borrower’s power 
sector; and (3) promoting energy efficiency. 
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary loan 
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the 
following: (i) repayment of principal, and payment of interest, charges and 
premium in accordance with Article II of this Agreement and Article III of the 
General Conditions; (ii) payment of any other charges which may be required by 
the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Project 
Implementing Entity (“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as mutually agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants, dated October 15, 2006. 
B. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that 
remedial measures are taken during the implementation and operation of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in the ESMP and the RPF. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity, to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty 
five days (45) after the end of the period covered by such report. 
- 8 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Implementing Entity, maintain or cause 
to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have the Financial 
Statements related to the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing 
Entity. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works and goods 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may, through the Project Implementing Entity, withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
General Conditions, this Section, and such additional arrangements as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
arrangements), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 9 -
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Works 
 
75,000,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods 
 
510,000,000 
100% 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
-0- 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
(4) Unallocated 
 
15,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
600,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each June 1 and December 1 
 
Beginning June 1, 2017 
 
through December 1, 2037 
 
2.33% 
 
On June 1, 2038 
2.14% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
- 11 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 12 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Co-financier” means, respectively, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the 
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund for International 
Development (OFID), referred to in paragraph 15 of the Appendix to the General 
Conditions. 
 
3. 
“Co-financing” means, respectively, an amount of US$307,000,000 from EIB 
and an amount of US$30,000,000 from the OFID, to be provided by the 
respective Co-financier to assist in financing the Project. 
 
4. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. Each 
Cofinancing Agreement is expected to have become effective by not later than 
December 31, 2011. 
 
5. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the Borrower’s 
environmental and social management plan for the Project prepared in 
accordance with the ESIA and provided to the Bank on January 26, 2010, as such 
framework may be updated from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional 
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to 
offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank. 
 
6. 
“ESIA” means the Borrower’s environmental and social impact assessment for 
the Project provided to the Bank on January 26, 2010, setting forth the matters to 
be addressed in the ESMP regarding mitigating, monitoring and institutional 
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to 
offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
- 13 -
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company 
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 164 of 2000. 
 
11. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
policy framework for the Project provided to the Bank on January 26, 2010, 
setting forth the rules, procedures and guidelines for the acquisition of land 
and/or other assets from persons affected by the Project (if any), and/or the 
resettlement and rehabilitation of such persons (if any), and the compensation 
thereof. 
 
12. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the provisions of 
Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“…Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as hereinafter defined) or such other date as requested by the 
Borrower and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into 
effect, and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
