CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7628-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Paraíba Second Rural Poverty Reduction Project - 
Projeto de Redução da Pobreza Rural do Estado da Paraíba – PRPR/COOPERAR)
between 
 
STATE OF PARAÍBA 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 28, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7628-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 28, 2010, between STATE OF PARAÍBA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million, nine hundred thousand dollars 
(US$20,900,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
-2- 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection of the 
Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the Guarantor’s 
Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan 
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the 
setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project, as described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, 
through STU, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the STU 
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreement or the Subproject Agreements. 
 
-3- 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that any event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 90 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
-4- 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the 
Operational Manual has been adopted through a regulation (portaria) to be issued by the 
Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has been 
duly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on May 25, 
2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Centro Administrativo, Bloco 4, 6º andar 
Bairro Jaguaribe  
João Pessoa-PB, 58019-900 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: 
(55-83) 3218-4824 
 
With copies to: 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
Brasília, DF, 70040-906 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(55-61) 2020-5006 
-5- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
STATE OF PARAÍBA 
 
By /s/ José Targino Maranhão 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower to reduce the incidence of rural 
poverty in the Borrower’s territory by improving access to small-scale socio-economic 
infrastructure and services, raising income and capital assets through investments in productive 
activities while facilitating linkages between small producers and national/international markets 
and strengthening the capacity of Municipal Councils and Community Associations to raise 
funding and harmonize policies and institutional arrangements for delivery of public investments 
intended to benefit the rural poor. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Component 1. Community Subprojects 
 
Support Community Associations, through Matching Grants for the implementation of 
Community Subprojects for: (a) small-scale socio-economic infrastructure and services, such as, 
inter alia, water supply, sanitation, electricity, education, health, cultural and environmental 
activities; and (b) productive and market-oriented investments.  
 
Component 2. Institutional Development 
 
Support the Borrower’s technical unit (STU) through: (a) technical assistance and 
training to facilitate the mobilization and strengthening of Community Associations to identify, 
prepare, operate and maintain Community Subprojects; (b) capacity-building for Municipal 
Councils to assess and supervise Community Associations and to prepare, plan, and manage 
Community Subprojects; (c) training and technical assistance for STU regional management units 
for activities related to Project implementation and supervision; and (d) information and 
communication campaigns, workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Community 
Associations to exchange implementation experiences regarding Community Subprojects and to 
explain and facilitate management integration regarding other Guarantor or state programs of 
poverty reduction. 
 
Component 3. Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Support the Borrower to efficiently and effectively implement, administer, supervise, 
coordinate, monitor and evaluate all the activities carried out under the Project. 
 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through STU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, including the Environmental Management Plan, the Indigenous 
Peoples’ Participation Plan, and the Action Plan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of these documents without 
the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of said 
documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the execution of the Project maintain the 
STU with competent staff in adequate numbers with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following key staff: an executive coordinator, an 
information/technology manager, a procurement specialist, a financial management 
specialist, and an environmental/social specialist. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, at least once a year during Project implementation on or about 
December 1, commencing on the first such date after the Effective Date, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a plan (the Annual Operating Plan) for the Project’s operation during 
the following twelve months. 
 
4. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the Loan proceeds was used for 
items improperly procured in violation of Section III to this Schedule, was not used for 
Eligible Expenditures or, in case of Community Subprojects was not supported by 
evidence of satisfaction of other criteria set forth in this Agreement or in the Operational 
Manual (including compliance with the Restrictive List and the eligibility criteria for 
Community Associations), the Borrower shall refund any such portion to the Bank as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
 
5. 
The Borrower shall: (a) have all the procurement records and documentation for each 
fiscal year of the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate procurement auditing 
principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such fiscal 
year, the procurement audit report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such 
other information concerning said procurement records and documentation and the 
procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
-8- 
 
C. 
Community Subprojects 
1. 
The Borrower shall make Matching Grants to Community Associations, in accordance 
with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank, as further detailed in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall make each Matching Grant under a Subproject Agreement with the 
respective Community Association on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which 
shall include the following:   
 
(a)  
The Matching Grant shall be denominated in Brazilian Reais. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the 
Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the Community 
Association to use the proceeds of the Matching Grant, or obtain a refund of all 
or any part of the amount of the Matching Grant then withdrawn, upon the 
Community Association’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subproject Agreement; and (ii) require each Community Association to:  (A) 
carry out its Community Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental 
and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower and the Operational Manual 
(including the Environmental Management Plan and the Indigenous Peoples’ 
Participation Plan); (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for 
the purpose of the Community Subproject by contributing in kind or in cash at 
least 10% of the investment costs associated with the Community Subproject; (C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Matching Grant 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Operational Manual; 
(D) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in 
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the 
Community Subproject and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain 
simple financial records and prepare statements of expenditures in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a 
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Community Subproject; and (2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have 
such financial records audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and promptly furnish the records, and related audit reports to the Borrower and 
the Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Community 
Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the 
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subproject Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Project.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
-9- 
 
not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement or any of 
its provisions.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through STU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ Services. All goods, works and non-consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, refer to 
-10- 
 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ 
Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and non-consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.   
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ Services.  
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consultants’ services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used: 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping  
(c) Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) under 
Community Subprojects, costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual for community participation. 
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject to the 
following additional provision, namely that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least-Cost Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of 
-11- 
 
Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such additional instructions as 
the World Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures, Matching Grants and Administrative Costs as set forth 
in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures, Matching Grants and Administrative Costs in each Category:  
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Dollars)
% of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Goods, works, non-
consultants’ services and 
consultants’ services required for 
Community Subprojects 
supported by Matching Grants 
 
17,970,000 
 
75% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services 
and training for Components 2 
and 3 of the Project 
1,700,000 
 
100% 
 
(3) Administrative Costs: 
 
(a)  incremental 
 
operational costs  
 
(except as covered by 
 
Category 3(b) below) 
 
(b) Project supervision and 
 
monitoring costs under 
 
Component 3 of the Project 
 
200,000 
 
480,000 
 
20% 
 
50% 
 
-12- 
 
(4) Front-end Fee 
            52,250 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
(5) Premium for Interest Rate 
Caps and Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 4.04 of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Unallocated 
             497,750
TOTAL 
             20,900,000 
 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this table, the term “Administrative Costs” means the operational 
costs (which would not have occurred absent the Project, including, inter alia, equipment 
and computer maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and rent for office facilities) and the 
supervision and monitoring costs of the Project incurred by STU under Component 3 of 
the Project (including, inter alia, operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel, 
spare parts and insurance, maintenance of the monitoring and information system, travel 
and per diem costs for technical staff of STU carrying out training, supervisory and 
quality control activities, but excluding expenditures for salaries and related benefits). 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,090,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
during the twelve months immediately before the date of this Agreement, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1) through (3). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2013. The Bank shall only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it 
agrees with such extension. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
By February 28, 2011, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower shall: 
A. 
carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of operations 
under the Project (Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project; and 
B. 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action 
as shall be recommended by the Bank.  
-13- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2013  
 
Through March 15, 2027 
 
3.33% 
On September 15, 2027 
 
3.43% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
-14- 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-15- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Action Plan” means the Borrower’s action plan satisfactory to the Bank designed to 
implement an information and communication campaign about the Project in its territory, 
as annexed to the Operational Manual. 
2. 
“Annual Operating Plan” means each plan referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Loans”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Brazilian Reais” means the currency of the Federal Republic of Brazil. 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
6. 
“Community Association” means a group of rural poor with common interests and with a 
legal personality in accordance with the Borrower’s and the Guarantor’s law, whose 
Community Subproject has been found eligible in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
the Operation Manual, which has applied for financing and has received or is to receive a 
Matching Grant under a Subproject Agreement to be executed with the Borrower under 
Component 1 of the Project. 
7. 
 “Community Subproject” means an eligible small-scale socioeconomic infrastructure or 
service investment, (water supply, sanitation, electricity, education, health, cultural and 
environmental activities, inter alia), or a productive and market-oriented investment as 
approved by the Borrower and, as the case may arise, by the Bank in accordance with 
relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and to be partly financed with a Matching 
Grant under a Subproject Agreement for the activities set forth in Component 1 of the 
Project and to be carried out by a Community Association within the territory of 
Borrower. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the document dated October 14, 2008, as 
published and available to the public on the website www.paraiba.pb.gov.br, satisfactory 
to the Bank, which contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the 
Project and of the Community Subprojects, including identification of existing 
environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from 
the carrying out of said Community Subprojects, recommendation of mitigation measures 
for each negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified 
positive impact. 
-16- 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008).  
 
11. 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Participation Plan” means the document dated October 14, 2008, 
published and available to the public on the website www.paraiba.pb.gov.br, satisfactory 
to the Bank, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on indigenous peoples as 
a result of a Community Subproject and to ensure that they benefit from such Community 
Subproject. 
 
12. 
“Matching Grant” means a grant to be made by the Borrower to a Community 
Association for the financing of an eligible Community Subproject in the Borrower’s 
territory to cover part of the capital cost of said Community Subproject.   
13. 
“Municipal Council” means a council operating within the territory of the Borrower, 
composed mainly of representatives of communities and local organizations, as provided 
in the Operational Manual. 
 
14. 
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project, satisfactory to the 
Bank to be adopted by the Borrower through a regulation (portaria), which shall contain, 
inter alia: (i) the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of 
the STU in charge of daily Project coordination and monitoring; (ii) the procedures for 
procurement of works, goods and services for the Project and for the Community 
Subprojects, as well as for financial management and audits (i.e. financial audit and 
procurement audit) of the Project and of the Community Subprojects; (iii) flow and 
disbursement arrangements of Project funds; (iv) the eligibility criteria for the 
Community Subprojects, their selection and approval processes, the Restrictive List, as 
well as model forms for Subproject Agreements; (v) the staffing plan for the STU; (vi) 
the Action Plan and the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of the Project; (vii) the 
Environmental Management Plan; (viii) the Indigenous People’s Participation Plan; and 
(ix) the Action Plan. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
October 14, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
17. 
“Restrictive List” means a list of activities to be annexed to the Operational Manual and 
detailing all the types of Community Subprojects which cannot benefit from a Matching 
Grant under the Project. 
 
18. 
 “STU” means the Borrower’s technical unit (Cooperar) within the Secretariat of 
Planning of the Borrower and which is in charge of the day-to-day coordination and 
implementation of the Project. 
 
-17- 
 
19. 
“STU Legislation” means the Borrower’s Law No.6.523, dated September 10, 1997, as 
amended, and as regulated by the Borrower’s Decree No. 29.005 dated December 28, 
2007. 
 
20. 
“Subproject Agreement” means each agreement entered into between the Borrower, 
through STU and a Community Association as referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, for the financing and implementation of a Community Subproject under 
Component 1 of the Project. 
 
