 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7910-CN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Sustainable Development in Poor Rural Areas Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated August 25, 2010  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 25, 2010, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”), with the exception of Part D of the Project which will 
be financed by the Co-financing. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:  
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;  
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and  
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities (Chongqing 
Municipality, Henan Province, and Shaanxi Province) to carry out their 
Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
 
 
- 3 - 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) 
have been fulfilled. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
  
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
 
Sanlihe 
 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
- 5 - 
 SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to explore and pilot more effective and 
innovative ways of providing poverty reduction assistance to the poorest communities 
and households in Henan Province, Shaanxi Province and Chongqing Municipality (the 
Project Provinces) through community-driven development and participatory approach; 
and (b) to pilot sustainable land management and adaption measures to address 
vulnerability to climate change in poor rural areas in the Project Provinces.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Community-Driven Development  
 
1. 
Development of basic rural infrastructure in poor villages through the provision 
of investment support and related technical assistance for the construction and 
improvement of, inter alia, village access roads, drinking water supply systems, 
rural sanitation infrastructure, electrification, communication infrastructure, 
school building construction and repair, small-scale agriculture production 
infrastructure, and basic housing repair.   
 
Part B: Community Development Financing and Capacity Building for CDD and   
CDF   
 
1.  
Provision of Community Development Financing to Community Cooperatives to 
finance CDF Sub-grants and/or CDF Sub-loans in support of household-level 
productive activities, including improved and diversified crop production, animal 
husbandry, and other income generating activities.   
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and capacity building support at the village 
level to support the CDD and CDF activities under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the 
Project, including:  
 
(a) 
information dissemination, mobilization of villagers, formulation of 
community annual investment plans and village medium-term 
development 
plans; 
and 
preparation, 
technical 
evaluation, 
implementation and inspection of the above-mentioned CDD activities; 
and 
 
(b)  
the development, implementation, management and supervision of 
productive activities, including farmer training in technical and 
vocational skills, infrastructure operation and management, and skills 
training for women; support for extension services in the areas of  access 
 
 
- 6 - 
to market information, and awareness campaigns about off-farm labor 
opportunities for farmers. 
 
Part C: Rural Migrants Support   
 
1.  
Carrying out activities to improve the condition of rural migrant workers in urban 
areas in Chongqing, including construction/improving migrant worker 
dormitories and migrant workers service centers, provision of vocational training 
and job placement assistance; establishing migrant community service centers to 
provide social services.  
 
2.  
Provision of MLMS Financing to MLMAs to finance MLMS Sub-grants and/or 
MLMS Sub-loans in support of migrant workers and migrant workers’ micro-
enterprises. 
 
3.  
Strengthening the monitoring and evaluation system relating to the welfare of 
migrant workers; carrying out research to examine the relationship between 
migration and poverty alleviation; and conducting training and study tours to 
strengthen the capacity of the Chongqing municipal government in administering 
migrant workers’ affairs.  
 
Part D:  Sustainable Land Management and Adaptation  
 
1. 
Designing and implementing sustainable land management and adaptation pilot 
activities based on community participation through promoting adaptation 
measures in small infrastructure and agricultural improvement projects; and 
providing technical assistance to communities and township technical staff in the 
design, implementation, and monitoring of the above-mentioned pilot activities.  
 
2. 
Disseminating the experience of implementation of the pilot activities referred to 
in D.1 above and promoting the integration of such interventions in the CDD 
activities under Part A of the Project.   
 
3. 
Supporting policy studies analyzing the linkages between poverty, vulnerability 
to climate change, and adaptation; and conducting consultation workshops to 
facilitate experience exchanges among agencies with responsibilities in land and 
water resources management, agriculture, forestry, and other aspects of climate 
change adaptation. 
 
Part E: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
1.  
Strengthening the capacity of the Project implementing agencies at all levels in 
Project management, monitoring, and evaluation through the provision of office 
furniture and equipment, vehicles (where applicable), related technical 
assistance, workshops, and international training and study tours. 
 
 
- 7 - 
2. 
Designing and implementing a comprehensive Project management information 
system, including reporting progress, financial management and impact 
monitoring and evaluation, and domestic training (including workshops) and 
study tours. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Institutional  
 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entities the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Categories for each such 
Entity as set forth the table in Section IV of this Schedule on the following 
principal terms: 
 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.  
 
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years:  
 
(a)  
the principal amount so made available; and  
 
(b)  
an amount equal to the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project the Central Project Coordination Office (CPCO) with powers, functions, 
staff and resources, satisfactory to the Bank for, inter alia, overseeing the 
implementation of the Project, coordinating among the project implementing 
agencies at the local levels for the efficient and timely implementation of the 
Project, and carrying out Part D.3 of the Project.  
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the CPCO, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and cause the Project Implementing Entities to prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the CPCO, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provision of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through the CPCO, shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and 
furnish to the Bank as part of the Progress Report not later than ninety (90) days 
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for 
the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services.  All goods, works  and non- 
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
 
 
- 10 - 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultants 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services  shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
Services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall 
be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s 
Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which 
may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum 
of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
 
- 11 - 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall 
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to 
 
 
- 12 - 
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (i) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are 
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the 
procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered 
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
Project Implementing Entities shall have in place provisions for 
bidders to protest. 
 
(b)  
Shopping  
 
(c)        Community Participation in Procurement 
 
(d)        Direct Contracting 
(e)        Commercial Practices 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
 
 
- 13 - 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection  
 
(b)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c)  Single-source Selection 
 
(d)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(e)   Sole-source Selection 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more; (c) all contracts for goods, works and non-consultant 
services to be procured based on Direct Contracting method, regardless of 
contract value thereof;  (d) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more for firms, and $50,000 or more for 
individuals; and (e) each contract proposed to be awarded under Single-source 
Selection and Sole-source Selection procedures. All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of 
 
 
- 14 - 
the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Chongqing 
 
 
(a) CDD Grants under Part A.1 
of the Project 
11,160,000 
55% 
(b) CDFs and goods, consultant 
services and non-consultant 
services and Incremental 
Operating Costs under  
Part B.2 of the Project 
4,040,000 
88% 
(c) MLMSFs, goods (except 
vehicles), works, consultant 
services, and Incremental 
Operating Costs under Parts 
C.1 and C.3 of the Project 
7,870,000 
76% 
(d) (i) International Training, 
goods (except vehicles), and 
consultant services under  
Part E.1 of the Project 
 
 
 (ii) Domestic Training, goods 
(except vehicles), works, 
consultant services and  
non-consultant services, and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
under Part E.2 of the Project.  
370,000 
 
 
 
 
500,000 
100% 
 
 
 
 
94% 
(2) Henan 
 
 
(a) CDD Grants under Part A.1 
of the Project 
23,940,000 
68% 
(b) CDFs and goods, consultant 
services and non-consultant 
services and Incremental 
Operating costs under  
Part B.2 of the Project 
10,240,000 
68% 
 
 
- 15 - 
 
(c) (i) International Training, 
goods, and consultant 
services under Part E.1 of the 
Project 
 
 
(ii) Domestic Training, goods 
(except vehicles), works, 
consultant services and  
non-consultant services, and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
under Part E.2 of the Project 
960,000 
 
 
 
 
770,000 
100% 
 
 
 
 
16% 
3.  Shaanxi 
 
 
(a) CDD Grants under Part A.1 
of the Project 
21,870,000 
53% 
(b) CDFs and goods, consultant 
services and non-consultant 
services and Incremental 
Operating Costs under  
Part B.2 of the Project 
16,030,000 
100% 
(c) (i) International Training, 
goods (except vehicles), and 
consultant services under Part 
E.1 of the Project 
 
 
(ii) Domestic Training, goods 
(except vehicles), works, 
consultant services and non-
consultant services, and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
under Part E.2 of the Project 
1,080,000 
 
 
 
 
920,000 
100% 
 
 
 
 
31% 
4. Front-end Fee 
250,000 
 
 
 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
5. Premium for Interest Rate Cap 
on Interest Collar 
0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL 
         100,000,000 
 
 
 
- 16 - 
(b) 
For the purpose of this Schedule:  
(i) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs 
incurred by the Borrower’s implementing agencies at the provincial, 
county and village levels, on account of Project management, monitoring 
and evaluation, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent 
the Project, including costs incurred for office supplies and consumables, 
repairs of equipment and vehicles, transportation costs and per diem for 
staff travel, rental of office space, fuel costs, communication costs, and 
bank charges, but excluding the salaries and salary supplements of the 
Borrower’s civil servants.   
 
(ii) 
the term “International Training” means the reasonable cost of travel, 
lodging and per diem for trainees attending training, study tours and 
seminars abroad. 
 
(iii) 
the term “Domestic Training” means the reasonable cost of travel, 
lodging and per diem for trainees attending training, study tours, 
workshops and seminars abroad and cost of delivering training and 
workshops such as rental of training space and training equipment and 
other logistic costs. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made within twelve months prior 
to the date of this Agreement, but on or after May 27, 2009, for Eligible 
Expenditures;  
 
(b) 
for payments made for CDFs under Categories 1(b), 2(b), and 3(b) 
unless the Bank shall have approved the CDF Manual; and  
 
(c) 
for payments made for MLMSFs under Category 1(c) unless the Bank 
shall have approved the MLMSF Manual. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2015  
 
through March 15, 2040 
 
 
2% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
 
 
- 18 - 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
- 19 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“CDD” means community-driven development. 
 
3. 
“CDD Grant” means a community-driven development grant made by a Project 
Implementing Entity to a CDD Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan for 
the financing and carrying out of a CDD Sub-project under Part A.1 of the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement, the CDD Manual 
and the Financial Management Manual; and the term “CDD Grants” means, 
collectively, all such CDD Grants. 
 
4. 
“CDD Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a 
County PMO and a CDD Beneficiary for purposes of providing a CDD Grant 
pursuant to paragraph 11 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Bank; and “CDD Grant Agreements” means, collectively, all of said CDD Grant 
Agreements. 
 
5. 
“CDD Beneficiary” means an administrative village of a Project Implementing 
Entity eligible to carry out a CDD Sub-project pursuant to the CDD Manual; and 
the term “CDD Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such CDD Beneficiaries. 
 
6. 
“CDD Manual” means the manual dated August 21, 2008, setting out, inter alia, 
the roles and responsibilities of all agencies involved in the implementation of  
Part A of the Project, accounting and financial management requirements, 
procurement 
procedures, 
community-based 
governance 
and 
monitoring 
framework and a negative list of the activities not eligible for financing under 
Part A.1 of the Project, and referred to paragraph 8 of Section I of the Project 
Agreement; as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
7. 
“CDD Sub-projects” means, collectively, the basic rural infrastructure investment 
activities under Part A.1 of the Project included or to be included in the 
community annual investment plans, to be prepared and carried out by a CDD 
Beneficiary and to be financed from the proceeds of CDD Grants in accordance 
with the provisions of the CDD Manual and the relevant provisions of the Project 
Agreement; and the term “CDD Sub-project” means any of the CDD  
Sub-projects. 
 
 
 
- 20 - 
8. 
“CDF” or “Community Development Financing” means a community 
development financing made by a Project Implementing Entity to a Community 
Cooperative out of the proceeds of the Loan for the financing and carrying out of 
a CDF Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the 
CDF Manual, the Project Agreement, and the Financial Management Manual; 
and the term “Community Development Financing” or “CDFs” means, 
collectively, all such community development financing. 
 
9. 
“CDF Beneficiary” means a household or a group of households selected to be 
eligible to carry out a CDF Sub-project pursuant to the CDF Manual; and the 
term “CDF Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such CDF Beneficiaries. 
 
10. 
“CDF Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a County 
PMO and a Community Cooperative for purposes of providing a CDF to a CDF 
Beneficiary for carrying out a CDF Sub-project referred to in paragraph 15 of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and the term “CDF 
Agreements” means, collectively, all such CDF Agreements.  
 
11. 
“CDF Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 13 of Section I of the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“CDF Sub-grant” means a community development Sub-grant made by a 
Community Cooperative to a CDF Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the 
Community Development Financing for the financing and carrying out of a CDG 
Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project 
Agreement, the CDF Manual and the Financial Management Manual; and the 
term “CDF Sub-grants” means, collectively, all such CDF Sub-grants. 
 
13. 
“CDF Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Community Cooperative and a CDF Beneficiary for purposes of providing a 
CDF Sub-grant pursuant to paragraph 15(j) of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “CDF Sub-grant Agreements” means, collectively, 
all of said CDF Sub-grant Agreements. 
 
14. 
“CDF Sub-loan” means a community development Sub-loan made by a 
Community Cooperative to a CDF Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the 
Community Development Financing for the financing and carrying out of a CDF 
Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project 
Agreement, the CDF Manual and the Financial Management Manual; and the 
term “CDF Sub-loans” means, collectively, all such CDF Sub-loans. 
 
 
 
- 21 - 
15. 
“CDF Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Community Cooperative and a CDF Beneficiary for purposes of providing a 
CDF Sub-grant pursuant to paragraph 15(j) of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “CDF Sub-loan Agreements” means, collectively, all 
of said CDF Sub-loan Agreements. 
 
16. 
“CDF Sub-project” means a sub-project for productive and income generating 
activities under Part B.1 of the Project to be prepared and carried out by a CDF 
Beneficiary under a community-driven development approach and to be financed 
from the proceeds of a CDF Sub-grant or CDF Sub-loan in accordance with the 
provisions of the CDF Manual and the relevant provisions of the Project 
Agreement; and the term “CDF Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such CDF 
Sub-projects. 
 
17. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
18. 
“Central Project Coordination Office” and the acronym “CPCO” mean the office 
established by the Borrower and to be maintained according to the provisions of 
paragraph B.1of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Chongqing” means the Borrower’s Chongqing Municipality, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
20. 
“Co-financier” means the Global Environment Facility. 
 
21. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of four million two hundred and sixty five 
thousand Dollars ($4,265,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in the 
financing of Part D of the Project. 
 
22. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
People’s Republic of China and the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency for 
the Global Environment Facility, providing for the Co-financing. 
 
23. 
“Community Cooperative” means the community cooperative established or to 
be established in accordance with the Borrower’s relevant laws.  
 
24. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006.  
 
25. 
“County Project Leading Group” and its abbreviation “CPLG” mean the group 
referred to in paragraph 1(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
 
- 22 - 
 
26. 
“County Project Management Office” and its abbreviation “CPMO” mean the 
office referred to in paragraph 1(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
27. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
28. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” and the acronym “ESMF” 
mean the document dated September 3, 2008 adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entities, setting forth, inter alia, the assessment of environmental 
and social impacts of the Project, recommendations for mitigation of adverse 
impacts and enhancement of positive impacts based on such assessment, and the 
guidelines 
for 
environmental 
screening 
and 
monitoring 
of 
Project 
implementation; as said ESMF may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank.  
 
29. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the Financial Management Manual 
adopted by the Project Implementing Entities, dated  January 21, 2010, which 
sets out the policies and procedures for establishing and maintaining a financial 
management system to be implemented by the Project Implementing Entities in 
the carrying out of the Project, including guidelines on financial management, 
internal controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset management and 
withdrawal application procedures, consistent with the provisions set forth in 
Section II, B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
30. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
31. 
“Henan” means the Borrower’s Province of Henan, and any successor thereto. 
 
32. 
“Migrant Labor Micro-enterprises Association” or the acronym “MLMA” means 
the association established or to be established in accordance with the relevant 
laws of the Borrower. 
 
 
 
- 23 - 
33. 
“MLMS Financing” and its acronym “MLMSF” mean a migrant labor micro-
enterprise support financing made by Chongqing to a MLMA out of the proceeds 
of the Loan to be utilized by the MLMA for providing a MLMSF Sub-grant or 
MLMSF Sub-loans for the financing and carrying out of a MLMSF Sub-project 
under Part C.2 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement, 
the MLMSF Manual and the Financial Management Manual; and the term 
“MLMS Financing ” means, collectively, all such MLMS Financing. 
 
34. 
“MLMS Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between Chongqing 
and a MLMA for purposes of providing MLMSF Sub-grants and/or MLMSF 
Sub-loans to MLMSF Beneficiaries for carrying out MLMSF Sub-projects. 
 
35. 
“MLMSF Beneficiary” means a migrant worker, a migrant worker household, or 
a micro-enterprise in Chongqing eligible to carry out a MLMSF Sub-project 
pursuant to the MLMSF Manual; and the term “MLMSF Beneficiaries” means, 
collectively, all such MLMSF Beneficiaries. 
 
36. 
“MLMSF Manual” means the manual prepared for the migrant labor micro-
enterprise support grant component under Part C.2 of the Project, dated 
December 28, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 16 of Section I of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank.  
 
37. 
“MLMSF Sub-grant” means a micro-enterprise development sub-grant made by 
a MLMA to a MLMSF Beneficiary out of the proceeds of a MLMS Financing for 
the financing and carrying out of a MLMSF Sub-project under Part C.2 of the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement, the MLMSF Manual 
and the Financial Management Manual; and the term “MLMSF Sub-grants” 
means, collectively, all such MLMSF Sub-grants. 
 
38. 
“MLMSF Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between a MLMA and a MLMSF Beneficiary for purposes of providing a 
MLMSF Sub-grant pursuant to paragraph 18(j) of Section I of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank; and “MLMSF Sub-grant Agreements” means, 
collectively, all of said MLMSF Sub-grant Agreements. 
 
39. 
“MLMSF Sub-loan” means a micro-enterprise development sub-loan made by a 
MLMA to a MLMSF Beneficiary out of the proceeds of a MLMS Financing for 
the financing and carrying out of a MLMSF Sub-project under Part C.2 of the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement, the MLMSF Manual 
and the Financial Management Manual; and the term “MLMSF Sub-loans” 
means, collectively, all such MLMSF Sub-loans. 
 
 
 
- 24 - 
40. 
“MLMSF Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
a MLMA and a MLMSF Beneficiary for purposes of providing a MLMSF Sub-
loan pursuant to paragraph 18 (j) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “MLMSF Sub-loan Agreements” means, 
collectively, all of said MLMSF Sub-loan Agreements. 
 
41. 
“MLMSF Sub-project” means a sub-project for micro-enterprise development in 
Chongqing under Part C.2 of the Project to be prepared and carried out by a 
MLMSG Beneficiary under a community-driven development approach and to 
be financed from the proceeds of a MLMSF Sub-grant or MLSMF Sub-loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the MLMSF Manual and the relevant 
provisions of the Project Agreement; and the term “MLMSF Sub-projects” 
means, collectively, all such MLMSF Sub-projects. 
  
42. 
“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
 
43. 
“Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition” means the policy 
framework, dated September 4, 2008, adopted by the Project Implementing 
Entities, which sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the 
preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required during the 
implementation of the Project, as said policy framework may be revised from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
 
44. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
45. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Procurement Plan for the Project, adopted by 
Chongqing, Henan, and Shaanxi dated April 16, 2010 and referred to in 
paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
 
46. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Borrower’s 
Municipality of Chongqing, and the Henan and Shaanxi Provinces and any 
successors thereto, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
47. 
“Project Counties” means the counties selected to participate in the Project. 
 
 
 
- 25 - 
48. 
“Project Implementing Entities” means Chongqing Municipality, Henan Province 
and Shaanxi Province, and any successors thereto, and “Project Implementing 
Entity” means of any of the Project Implementing Entities. 
 
49. 
 “Project Villages” means the administrative and natural villages selected to 
participate in the Project. 
 
50. 
“Provincial Project Leading Group” and the acronym “PPLG” mean provincial 
project leading group established by each Project Implementing Entity and to be 
maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
51. 
“Provincial Project Management Office” and the acronym “PPMO” mean the 
office established by each Project Implementing Entity and to be maintained 
according to the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
52. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of: (i) the Borrower, Part D.3 
of the Project; (ii) Chongqing, all Parts of the Project to be implemented by 
Chongqing in its jurisdiction; (iii) Henan, Parts A, B, D, and E of the Project to 
be implemented by Henan in its jurisdiction; and (iv) Shaanxi, Parts A, B, D  
and E of the Project to be implemented by Shaanxi in its jurisdiction.  
 
53. 
“Shaanxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Shaanxi, and any successor thereto. 
 
54. 
“Township Project Working Stations” means the stations referred to in  
paragraph 1(d) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
. . . . 
 
 
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
 
 
- 26 - 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 
