CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7866-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third National Program for Community Empowerment in Urban Areas) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 9, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated April 9, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I —GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions 
for Loans, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 2008) (“General 
Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred forty nine million nine 
hundred eighty thousand United States Dollars (US$149,980,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the Ministry of Public 
Works, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:                  
the Borrower, through the MPW, shall have adopted the Project Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY 45799   
DJMLN-IA 
 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:  
 
 Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to ensure that the urban poor benefit 
from improved socio-economic and local governance conditions.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1:  Community and Local Government Capacity Building 
Carrying out community development capacity building training and workshops and 
conducting facilitation for:  
(a) 
BKMs, focused on the preparation of Community Development Plans, use of 
Kelurahan Grants and implementation of Sub-projects, and for BKMs that have 
received Kelurahan Grants at least three times, assistance to support 
consolidation of various poverty alleviation and community driven 
development programs; and 
(b) 
community groups in Participating Kelurahans including community volunteers 
and Local Government officials in community development planning and 
participation in and monitoring of Sub-projects. 
Part 2:  Kelurahan Grants  
Providing Kelurahan Grants to BKMs for Sub-projects for: (a) infrastructure investments, 
(b) Revolving Funds; and (c) social assistance activities, in each case as identified 
through Community Development Plans. 
Part 3:  Implementation and Technical Assistance 
 
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of staff of the Project Management Unit, Province-
level government agencies, Participating Kecamatans, Participating Kotas, 
Participating Kabupatens and Participating Kelurahans in Project implementation 
and monitoring, including through the National Management Consultants, 
Oversight Consultants and Facilitators. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out evaluations of the impact of the Project on poverty in Participating 
Kelurahans. 
 
6
Part 4.  Contingency for Disaster Risk Response 
 
Providing preparedness and rapid response to disaster, emergency and/or catastrophic 
events, as needed, at the Kelurahan level through Sub-projects and/or using the Project 
implementation arrangements. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
At the national level, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure that the Project shall be implemented under the umbrella of 
PNPM, and subject to the overall guidance of Tim Pengendali PNPM; 
 
(b) 
maintain, until completion of the Project: (i) the PMU (Satker), 
established in MPW, headed by an appropriately qualified Project 
Manager, and responsible for the management and monitoring of the 
Project; and (ii)  the Central PIU (Satker), established in MPW, 
responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Project including 
recruitment of National Management Consultants and Oversight 
Consultants and production of reports on the progress of the Project,  in 
each case, with a mandate, composition and terms of reference as set out 
in the Project Manual and acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower;  
 
(c) 
ensure that each of the PMU and the central PIU (Satker) are provided at 
all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by 
qualified personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to 
accomplish the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
ensure coordination, as necessary, with the Tim Pengendali PNPM. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MPW, shall: 
 
(a) 
at the level of each Province, cause to be established, prior to the 
commencement of Project activities in each such Province and thereafter 
maintain until completion of the Project a Provincial PIU (Satker), 
responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Project, including 
recruiting the Facilitators and City Coordinators and managing 
community training, in both cases with a mandate, composition and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
by no later than November 30 in each calendar year of Project 
implementation, commencing on November 30, 2010, identify each 
Participating Kecamatan, Participating Kota, Participating Kabupaten 
and Participating Kelurahan, in each case in accordance with the Project 
Manual; 
8
(c) 
at the level of each Participating Kota and Participating Kabupaten, 
cause to be established, prior to the commencement of Project activities 
in such Participating Kota and Participating Kabupaten and therafter 
maintain until completion of the Project, a Kota/Kabupaten PIU (Satker), 
responsible for: (i) day-to-day implementation of the Project, including 
channeling of Kelurahan Grants, with a mandate, composition and terms 
of reference acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower as set out in the 
Project Manual; and (ii) ensuring coordination with the Kabupaten/Kota 
Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team; 
 
(d) 
at the level of the Participating Kecamatan, maintain until completion of 
the Project, a PJOK as a Sub-project implementation unit, with a 
mandate,  and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the 
Borrower as set out in the Project Manual, to be responsible for 
implementation of the Project and administration of proposals from 
BKMs and Sub-project Agreements;  
 
(e) 
at the level of each Participating Kelurahan, establish prior to the 
commencement of any Sub-project in that Participating Kelurahan, and 
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a BKM, legally 
established, whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall 
include a financial management unit or specialist, and shall be acceptable 
to the Bank and the Borrower as set out in the Project Manual, to be 
responsible for implementation of the Project at the Kelurahan-level; and 
 
(f) 
ensure that each Provincial PIU (Satker), Kota/Kabupaten PIU (Satker), 
PJOK and BKM shall be provided with adequate funds and other 
resources, and supported by qualified technical, financial and 
administrative personnel in adequate numbers as needed to accomplish 
the objectives of the Project. 
 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MPW, shall: 
 
(a) 
adopt and, thereafter ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with,  a Project Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include the description of: (i) implementation arrangements; (ii) the 
procurement procedures set forth in Section III of this Schedule 2 and 
standard procurement documentation; (iii) reporting requirements, 
financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in 
Section II of this Schedule 2; (iv) the Project performance indicators;    
(v) the Environmental Guidelines and the environmental criteria 
applicable to Sub-project design including environmental impact 
mitigation; the Isolated Vulnerable Peoples Framework; and the Land 
9
Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, including the technical 
guidelines for implementation of such frameworks; (vi) the Better 
Governance Action Plan; (vii) maintenance provisions for works to be 
carried out under a Sub-project; (viii) the criteria for the selection of Sub-
projects, as well as the terms and conditions governing the Kelurahan 
Grants and Local Government Participation meeting the requirements set 
out in Annex 1 to this Schedule; (ix) the Operational Guidelines for 
Monitoring and Evaluation of PNPM; and (x) criteria for operation of 
Revolving Funds;  
(b) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the 
Project Manual without the prior n agreement of the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
 
(c) 
ensure that the Project Manual is made available, at all times until 
completion of the Project, to Oversight Consultants and Facilitators and 
Participating Kelurahans, and applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; 
and  
 
(d) 
with the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank, update 
the Project Manual, as necessary, at all times ensuring compliance 
thereof with the terms of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of providing Kelurahan Grants under the Project, the Borrower 
shall only submit an application for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Category (1) in the Table in Section IV.A of this Schedule to finance 
Sub-projects prepared and selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
Annex 1 to this Schedule and the Project Manual. 
 
3. 
In carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that prior to 
participating in the Project, a Participating Local Government has:   
 
(a)  
agreed in writing to carry out activities under the Project in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank and included in the Project 
Manual;  
 
(b)  
taken all steps required to make available the Local Government 
Participation; and  
 
(c)  
published a list of Project Kelurahans in accordance with the criteria set 
out in the Project Manual. 
 
4. 
In carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that, prior to 
participating in the Project, a Participating Kelurahan has:  
 
10 
(a)  
agreed in writing to carry out activities under the Project in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower and included in 
Project Manual;   
 
(b)  
established, through the BKM, a Project office for purposes of Project 
coordination and disbursement of  Kelurahan Grants;   
 
(c)  
adopted, through the BKM, a Community Development Plan, or revised, 
through the BKM, a previous Community Development Plan meeting the 
requirements set out in the Project Manual and identifying each Sub-
project; and  
 
(d)  
entered into a Sub-project Agreement for the Sub-project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule 2. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, for purposes of Part 2(b) of the Project, a 
Participating Kelurahan shall only finance Sub-projects through a Revolving 
Fund if the BKM proposed to receive such Revolving Fund meets the criteria for 
establishment and operation of a Revolving Fund set out in the Project Manual, 
including with respect to BKMs that have previously managed revolving funds, 
that they have a repayment rate meeting the requirements set out in the Project 
Manual.   
 
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to undertaking any activities under Part 4 
of the Project: (a) the Bank and the Borrower have agreed in writing that a 
disaster, emergency and/or catastrophic event requiring support for such 
activities has occurred; and (b) the Bank and the Borrower have entered into a 
written arrangement and/or the Borrower has adopted a supplement to the 
Project Manual, satisfactory to the Bank which defines the scope of such 
activities, and their implementation and disbursement arrangements. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure, at all times, that public information, for the purpose 
of disclosing to inhabitants of Participating Kelurahans all administrative, 
financial, environmental, social, procedural and technical aspects pertaining to 
the selection, design, preparation and implementation of Sub-projects, including 
the Project Manual, is available free of charge at the government offices of the 
respective Participating Kelurahan and Participating Local Government. 
 
8. 
The Borrower, through the PMU (Satker), shall, by the date which is no later 
than three (3) months after the Effective Date, issue instructions or issue an 
updated Project Manual, acceptable to the PMU (Satker) and the Bank, to Local 
Governments of Participating Kabupaten and Participating Kota, and to 
Provincial governments and to relevant stakeholders defining time periods 
within which categories of complaints/cases must be resolved, to whom they 
should be escalated if not resolved within such time periods and what the 
11 
consequences will be if such cases are not resolved or escalated in accordance 
with such instructions. 
 
9. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, auditing activities under the Project, including those referred to 
in Section II.B of this Schedule, are carried out in accordance with: (a) BPKP’s 
audit manual, dated November 30, 2007, as such manual may be amended from 
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and (b) in accordance 
with terms of reference agreed with the Bank. 
 
10. 
With respect to PNPM urban sub-projects financed from sources other than the 
Loan, including PNPM urban sub-projects for which Facilitators are financed by 
the Project but the PNPM urban sub-projects are themselves financed from such 
other sources, the PMU (Satker) shall:  
 
(i) 
undertake such sub-projects in accordance with the Project 
Manual; and  
 
(ii) 
retain responsibility for the design, construction, fiduciary 
controls and implementation of such sub-projects. 
 
C. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards 
 
1. 
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure that the proceeds of Kelurahan Grants shall not be used to finance 
the acquisition of land; 
(b) 
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
villagers, and to avoid the displacement of such villagers; and 
(c) 
shall apply, and shall ensure that each Participating Kelurahan shall 
apply, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework to Sub-project 
implementation, including: 
(i)  
taking all appropriate measures to avoid or minimize the 
acquisition of land or assets of people and to avoid the 
displacement of such people;  
(ii) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of 
people is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensuring 
that all Displaced Persons thereunder shall have been 
compensated and provided with resettlement and rehabilitation 
measures prior to the implementation of such Sub-project and in 
12 
accordance with the provisions of the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Framework; and 
(iii) 
in the case of the physical displacement of persons involving the 
displacement of more than two-hundred (200) people as a result 
of a Sub-project, ensure:  
(A) 
preparing a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action 
Plan in accordance with the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Framework and furnish such plan to the 
Bank for approval; and  
 
(B) 
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensuring that 
all Displaced Persons shall have been compensated and 
provided with applicable resettlement and rehabilitation 
benefits in accordance with the provisions of such plan. 
 
2. 
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall  apply, and shall ensure that 
each Participating Kelurahan shall apply, the Isolated Vulnerable Peoples 
Framework to Sub-project implementation, including: 
 
(a) 
avoiding, and, if not possible, minimizing cultural, social and economic 
adverse effects on Isolated Vulnerable People caused or likely to be 
caused by the Project; and 
 
(b) 
through a process of informed consultation and participation, involving 
concerned Isolated Vulnerable People in the design and implementation 
of Sub-projects so as to ensure that the benefits received by the Isolated 
Vulnerable People under the Project are in harmony with their economic, 
social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user rights. 
 
3. 
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall ensure that the provisions of the 
Environmental  Guidelines have been complied with and, where applicable, an 
Environmental Management Plan fully consistent with this Agreement and the 
Environmental Guidelines has been prepared and agreed upon in writing 
between the Borrower and the Bank, and applied in the implementation of such 
Sub-project. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
13 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, by September 30 in each year of Project implementation 
an annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section II.A, on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project during the twelve (12) month period preceding 
the date of said report (it being understood that the first such annual report may 
cover a period of less than twelve (12) months) and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services other than Consultants’ Services.   All goods, 
works and services other than consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
14 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services other 
than Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services other than consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services other than 
Consultants’ Services.
The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services other than consultants’ services.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding subject to the following additional procedures set out 
in Annex 2 to this Schedule 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Community Participation using procedures acceptable to the Bank as set out in the 
Project Manual 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
15 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Kelurahan Grants under Part 
2 of the Project 
 
115,760,000 
100% of Kelurahan Grant disbursed 
 
16 
(2) Goods,  consultants’ 
services, training and 
workshops and incremental 
operating costs* under Parts 
1 and 3 of the Project 
 
34,220,000 
100% 
(3) Kelurahan Grants; goods,  
consultants’ services, 
training and workshops and 
incremental operating 
costs* under Part 4 of the 
Project 
 
0
100%
TOTAL AMOUNT 
149,980,000 
 
*
For the purposes of this Table: (i) “training and workshops” means Project-related 
training and workshops conducted in the territory of the Borrower, including 
purchase and publication of materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and travel and 
subsistence of trainees; and (ii) “incremental operating costs” means reasonable 
costs arising under the Project on account of local contractual support staff 
salaries; travel and other travel-related expenditures; equipment rental and 
maintenance; vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and 
maintenance; materials and supplies; and utilities and communications expenses, 
but excluding salaries and honoraria of officials and staff of the Borrower. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a)  
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
(b)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$29,500,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after February 10, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures; or 
(c) 
under Category (3) until: (i) the Borrower has declared a disaster, 
emergency or catastrophic event through the relevant national, Province- 
or Local Government-level or other authority, and the Bank and the 
Borrower have agreed to use the proceeds of the Loan under Part 4 of the 
Project with respect thereto; and (ii) the Bank and the Borrower have 
entered into a written arrangement and/or the Borrower has adopted a 
17 
supplement to the Project Manual as necessary, satisfactory to the Bank 
and the Borrower, which defines the scope of activities, implementation 
arrangements and disbursement arrangements for the activities under Part 
4 of the Project. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013.   
 
18 
ANNEX 1 to SCHEDULE 2 
Selection Criteria for Sub-projects and Kelurahan Grants 
 
A. 
Selection Criteria for Sub-projects 
1. 
Each Sub-Project shall be selected from the Community Development Plan 
developed by the BKM of the Participating Kelurahan and meet the requirements 
set out in the Project Manual. 
2. 
No Sub-project shall: (a) include expenditures intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose; (b) include civil works for government administration or 
religious purposes; (c) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally 
harmful products (including pesticides, ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or 
tobacco products, materials containing asbestos, arms and drugs); (d) relate to 
activities producing liquid or gaseous effluents or emissions at harmful levels;  
(e) relate to activities using, producing, storing or transporting hazardous 
materials and wastes; (f) relate to logging; (g) relate to activities in protected 
areas; (h) relate to fisheries activities that are not in accordance with standards set 
by the Borrower’s Fishery Service Agency; (i) include the financing of 
government salaries; (j) mining or excavation of live coral or coral reef;             
(k) include the provision of goods, works or services, directly or through 
intermediaries, by suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, who have been 
declared ineligible to participate in the procurement of any Bank-financed or 
Bank-financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of time, as a 
result of a decision of the Bank, and in accordance with the terms of the decision; 
or (l) finance land acquisition. 
3. 
No project shall qualify as a Sub-project eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Kelurahan Grant until a Sub-project Agreement: (a) has been 
entered into between the relevant Participating Kelurahan, through the relevant 
PJOK, and BKM, in each case on terms and conditions set forth in Section B of 
this Annex; and (b) has been reviewed and approved by the relevant Oversight 
Consultants. 
4. 
Additional criteria for Sub-projects under Part 2(a) of the Project. 
(a) 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part 2(a) of the Project shall be a 
public infrastructure or equipment investment project or a social service 
project (which may include emergency preparedness or risk reduction to 
reduce vulnerability to natural disasters) which is technically, financially 
and environmentally viable, and economically justified by the number of 
people benefiting from it. 
19 
(b) 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part 2(a) of the Project in the education 
sector shall be compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota education 
master plan, if such plan exists. 
(c) 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part 2(a) of the Project in the health 
sector shall be compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota health 
master plan, if such plan exists. 
5. 
Additional criteria for Sub-projects under Part 2(b) of the Project.  A Sub-project 
proposed under Part 2(b) of the Project as a Revolving Fund may only be 
undertaken by a BKM meeting the requirements set out in the Project Manual, 
including a sufficient repayment history with respect to any other revolving funds 
managed by such BKM. 
 
6. 
Additional criteria for Sub-projects under Part 2(c) of the Project.   Each Sub-
project proposed under Part 2(c) of the Project as a social assistance project shall 
be designed to meet the needs of Highly Vulnerable Groups. 
 
7. 
Additional criteria for Sub-projects (if any) under Part 4 of the Project.   
 
(a)  
The Borrower has declared a disaster, emergency or catastrophic event 
through the relevant national, Province- or Local Government- level or 
other authority and the Bank and the Borrower have agreed in writing 
that such an event eligible for support for such activities under the 
Project  has occurred; and  
 
(b)  
the Bank and the Borrower have entered into a written arrangement 
and/or the Borrower has adopted a supplement to the Project Manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank which defines the scope of such activities, and 
their implementation and disbursement arrangements. 
 
B. 
Sub-project Review and Selection
The Borrower shall ensure that each Sub-project is the subject of a corresponding 
proposal for a Kelurahan Grant that has been prepared, submitted and reviewed in 
accordance with the guidelines, procedures and selection criteria set forth in the Project 
Manual and this Annex. 
C. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-project Agreements
Each Sub-project Agreement shall be on terms and conditions set forth in the Project 
Manual, which shall include: 
20 
(a)  
the requirement that the Participating Kelurahan carry out its Sub-project 
in accordance with the Project Manual; 
(b) 
the requirement that the Participating Kelurahan carry out its Sub-Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the Better Governance Action Plan, 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower, the Environmental Guidelines, the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Framework and the Isolated Vulnerable 
Peoples Framework;  
(c) 
the disbursement schedule for the Kelurahan Grant; 
(d) 
the requirement that each Participating Kelurahan procure the goods, 
works and services to be financed out of the Sub-project in accordance 
with provisions that are fully consistent with  the provisions of Section 
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
the requirement that each Participating Kelurahan monitor and evaluate 
the progress of the Sub-project in accordance with the Project Manual; 
(f) 
the requirement that each Participating Kelurahan maintain a financial 
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank; and at 
the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the 
Borrower, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited 
to the Borrower and the Bank;  
(g) 
the requirement that each Participating Kelurahan enable the Borrower 
and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant 
records and documents; and prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the 
Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing; and 
(h)  
include rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the 
Participating Kelurahan to use the proceeds of the Kelurahan Grant; or 
(ii) obtain a refund of the Kelurahan Grant upon the failure of the 
Participating Kelurahan, as applicable, to perform any of its obligations 
under the Sub-project Agreement.  
21 
ANNEX 2 to SCHEDULE 2 
 
Clarifications Relating to National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
1. 
General
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth 
in Presidential Decree No.80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the clarifications 
and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for compliance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Loans” dated 
May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Guidelines). 
 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a condition 
for participation in the bidding process.  
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders: (i) shall be 
allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not be 
denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully 
perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
 
3. 
Pre-qualification
(a) 
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works.  Normally, post-
qualification shall be used.  Pre-qualification shall be required only for large or complex 
works with the prior ‘no objection’ of the World Bank.  When pre-qualification shall be 
required. 
 
(b) 
Eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification.  
 
(c) 
Invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
 
4. 
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form a 
joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a condition 
of award of the contract. 
 
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
22 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and local 
regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement procedures 
under the Loan or the Loan. 
 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national 
daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 
twenty-four (24) hours prior the deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are 
willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit responsible for 
procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of the 
contract. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity for registering. 
 
7. 
Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of Loan or bank 
guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids, and if bids are invited in two (2) envelopes, both envelopes (technical and price) 
shall be opened at the same time. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the 
bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder. 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, 
non-substantial deviations. 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s 
estimate and budget ceiling without the World Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
23 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the World Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding shall not be 
carried out without the World Bank’s prior concurrence. 
24 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
April 1, 2019 
2.17 
October 1, 2019 
2.22 
April 1, 2020 
2.28 
October 1, 2020 
2.34 
April 1, 2021 
2.40 
October 1, 2021 
2.46 
April 1, 2022 
2.52 
October 1, 2022 
2.58 
April 1, 2023 
2.64 
October 1, 2023 
2.71 
April 1, 2024 
2.78 
October 1, 2024 
2.85 
April 1, 2025 
2.92 
October 1, 2025 
2.99 
April 1, 2026 
3.07 
October 1, 2026 
3.14 
April 1, 2027  
3.22 
October 1, 2027 
3.30 
April 1, 2028 
3.38 
October 1, 2028 
3.47 
April 1, 2029 
3.56 
October 1, 2029 
3.65 
April 1, 2030 
3.74 
October 1, 2030 
3.83 
April 1, 2031 
3.93 
October 1, 2031 
4.02 
25 
April 1, 2032 
4.12 
October 1, 2032 
4.23 
April 1, 2033 
4.33 
October 1, 2033 
4.44 
April 1, 2034 
4.71 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
26 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
27 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.   
Definitions  
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“BAPPENAS” means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional,
the 
Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Better Governance Action Plan” means a stand-alone chapter of the Project 
Manual designed to integrate the contents of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and 
to give effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions, measures and 
policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its forms 
under the Project, including enhanced information disclosure provisions, civil 
society oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with the risks 
associated with collusion, forgery and fraud, a complaint handling mechanism, 
and an appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies, and included as applicable 
in each Sub-project Agreement. 
4. 
“BKM” means Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat, a Kelurahan level organization 
with elected members, legally empowered by registering as an association to act 
on behalf of the Kelurahan community to take actions aimed at reducing poverty 
in the Participating Kelurahan, and “BKMs” means more than one BKM. 
 
5. 
“BPKP” means Badan Pengawas Keuangan dan Pembangunan, the Borrower’s 
Financial and Development Supervisory Agency, or any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Central PIU (Satker)” means the central-level Project implementation unit 
(Satuan Kerja, or Satker) established and operating in accordance with paragraph 
1(b) and paragraph 1(c) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
8. 
“City Coordinator” means the consultant assigned to each Participating Kota 
and/or Participating Kabupaten to manage implementation of the Project, 
including coordination of Facilitators, and “City Coordinators” means more than 
one City Coordinator. 
 
9. 
“Community Development Plan” means each multi-year development plan for a 
Participating Kelurahan prepared by a BKM in accordance the procedures and 
criteria set out in the Project Manual, and “Community Development Plans” 
means more than one Community Development Plan. 
28 
10. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Displaced Person”  means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.   
 
12. 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Environmental Guidelines” means the guidelines adopted by the Borrower 
through MPW on February 24, 2010 (Letter No. UM 0206-CB/189), setting forth 
the measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project to 
eliminate, mitigate or offset adverse environmental impacts or to reduce such 
impacts to acceptable levels in the design and implementation of Sub-projects, as 
such guidelines may be amended from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
14. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means an Environmental 
Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the Environmental 
Guidelines, adopted for the purposes of a Sub-project, and giving details of the 
agreed actions and policies designed to maximize the benefits of the Sub-project, 
eliminate or offset any adverse environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to 
acceptable levels, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to 
implement such actions and policies 
 
15. 
“Facilitator” means a technical, economic or social consultant assigned to work 
with Participating Kelurahans to develop and implement a Community 
Development Plan and Sub-projects, and “Facilitators” means more than one 
Facilitator. 
 
16. 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31. 
 
17. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
29 
18. 
“Highly Vulnerable Groups” means groups of peoples, including widows, the 
elderly, the disabled and the victims of natural disaster, having special poverty 
alleviation needs and to be addressed in the Community Development Plan. 
 
19. 
“Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that have a 
distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being 
disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any part 
thereof. 
 
20. 
“Isolated Vulnerable Peoples Framework” means the framework, acceptable to 
the Bank, adopted by the Borrower through MPW on February 24, 2010 (Letter 
No. UM 0206-CB/189) setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during 
the implementation of the Project for: (i) the informed involvement of Isolated 
Vulnerable People, through a process of informed participation, in the design and 
implementation of each Sub-project to be, or being, carried out in a location in 
which such people reside or use for their livelihood; and (ii) designing and 
implementing measures to provide benefits which are socially and culturally 
acceptable to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse impacts of Sub-
projects, as such Isolated Vulnerable People Framework; as such framework may 
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank and 
the Borrower. 
 
21. 
“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative division of the Borrower. 
 
22. 
“Kapubaten/Kota Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team” means the local 
government-level working group established under Perpres 13/2009 in each 
Participating Kabupaten, Participating Kecamatan or Participating Kota, or any 
successor thereto 
 
23. 
“Kecamatan” means a sub-district, an administrative sub-district of a Kabupaten. 
 
24. 
“Kelurahan” mean an urban section of a Kecamatan. 
 
25. 
“Kelurahan Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Participating Kelurahan for a Sub-project under Part 2 
or Part 4 of the Project, and “Kelurahan Grants” means more than one Kelurahan 
Grant. 
 
26. 
“Kota” means a municipality, an administrative division within a province of the 
Borrower. 
 
27. 
“Kota/Kabupaten PIU (Satker)” means each Project implementation unit (Satuan 
Kerja, or Satker) established and operated by each Participating Kota and each 
Participating Kabupaten in accordance with paragraph 2(c) and paragraph 2(f) of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
30 
28. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” means a resettlement and 
rehabilitation action plan for a Sub-project giving details of the agreed provisions 
for compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons 
under the Sub-project, along with the procedural and institutional measures 
needed to implement such agreed provisions, acceptable to the Bank and the 
Borrower, prepared and implemented by a BKM, pursuant to the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Framework.  
 
29. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework” means the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy adopted by the Borrower through MPW on February 24, 
2010 (Letter No. UM 0206-CB/189) setting forth the measures and actions to be 
taken during the implementation of the Project for the provision of compensation, 
rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, as such framework 
may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank 
and the Borrower. 
 
30. 
“Local Government” means the government of a Kabupaten, Kecamatan or Kota, 
as the context requires. 
 
31. 
“Local Government Participation” means Local Government funding contributed 
to the total Sub-project cost for participating in the Project, to be made available 
by a Participating Local Government to a Participating Kelurahan for a Sub-
project in accordance with the formula set forth in the Project Manual.  
 
32. 
“Menko Kesra” means the Borrower’s Coordinating Ministry for Social Welfare, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
33. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
34. 
“Ministry of Home Affairs”  and “MOHA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Home Affairs, and any successor thereto. 
 
35. 
“Ministry of Public Works” and “MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of 
the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
36. 
“National Management Consultants” means the team of consultants within the 
Project Management Unit at the central level engaged to assist in Project 
implementation and monitoring. 
 
37. 
“Operational Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation of PNPM” means the 
guidelines, included in the Project Manual, outlining the common objectives, 
mechanisms and responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
 
31 
38. 
“Oversight Consultants” means the team of consultants and facilitators at the 
provincial and district level engaged to assist Participating Kelurahans with 
Project implementation and monitoring.    
 
39. 
“Part” means a part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
40. 
“Participating Kabupaten” means a Kabupaten which is responsible for a Local 
Government Participation for a Sub-project in accordance with the Project 
Manual, and “Participating Kabupatens” means more than one Participating 
Kabupaten. 
41. 
“Participating Kecamatan” means a Kecamatan in which one or more 
Participating Kelurahans are located and which establishes a PJOK for the 
Project in accordance with the Project Manual, and “Participating Kecamantans” 
means more than one Participating Kecamatan.  
42. 
“Participating Kelurahan” means a Kelurahan participating in the Project meeting 
the eligibility requirements set out in the Project Manual. 
43. 
“Participating Kota” means a Kota which is responsible for a Local Government 
Participation for a Sub-project, and “Participating Kotas” means more than one 
Participating Kota. 
 
44. 
“Participating Local Government” means the government of a Participating Kota 
or a Participating Kabupaten designated by the Borrower as one in which a 
Participating Kelurahan shall carry out a Sub-project in accordance with the 
Project Manual, and “Participating Local Governments” means more than one 
Participating Local Government. 
 
45. 
“Perpres” means a Peraturan Presiden, a presidential regulation. 
 
46. 
“PJOK” means the Project operations officer at the Kecamatan level responsible 
for each Sub-project in the relevant Participating Kelurahans, established in 
accordance with paragraph 2(d) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and “PJOKs” means more than one PJOK.  
47. 
“PMU (Satker)” means the central-level Project management unit established and 
operating in accordance with paragraph 1(b) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
 
48. 
“PNPM” means Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Mandiri, the 
Borrower’s National Program for Community Empowerment, as described in 
Perpres 13/2009, as the same may be amended or updated from time to time. 
 
32 
49. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
50. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 25, 2010 (Letter no.HL.0202-Cb/129), and referred to in 
paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
51. 
“Project Manual” means the Project Manual, referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Project Manual may be 
amended or supplemented from time to time with the prior written agreement of 
the Bank. 
 
52. 
“Province” means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower’s territory at 
the first level below the national level. 
 
53. 
“Provincial PIU (Satker)” means each Province-level Project implementation unit 
(Satuan Kerja, or Satker) established and operated by each Province in 
accordance with paragraph 2(a) and paragraph 2(f) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, and “Provincial PIUs (Satkers)” means more than one 
Provincial PIU (Satker). 
54. 
“Provincial Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team” means the province-level 
working group established under Perpres 13/2009 in each Province, or any 
successor thereto. 
55. 
“Revolving Fund” means a fund established and managed by a BKM or through 
other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower and set out in the 
Project Manual to support investments identified in Community Development 
Plans and meeting the requirements set out in the Project Manual, and 
“Revolving Funds” means more than one Revolving Fund. 
56. 
“Rupiah” and “Rp” means the currency of the Borrower. 
57. 
“State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions” means the 
Borrower’s State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions, and any 
successor thereto. 
58. 
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure or equipment investment project, 
Revolving Fund project or social assistance project under Part 2 of the Project 
selected pursuant to criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Manual and 
utilizing the proceeds of a Kelurahan Grant, and “Sub-projects” means more than 
one Sub-project. 
33 
59. 
“Sub-project Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
relevant Participating Kelurahan, through the BKM, and the relevant PJOK for 
purposes of implementing a Sub-project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and included in the Project Manual, 
and “Sub-project Agreements” means more than one Sub-project Agreement. 
60. 
“Tim Pengendali PNPM” means the national-level oversight body of PNPM, 
chaired by Menko Kesra (Tim Pengendali PNPM), with representatives of 
relevant ministries, including BAPPENAS, MOHA, Ministry of Finance, 
Ministry of Public Works, and State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged 
Regions, and any successor thereto. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Bank has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole 
or in part by the Bank or the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Bank or 
the Bank that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of 
the proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank.” 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
