 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7975-ID 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Seventh Development Policy Loan) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated November 24, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMNET dated November 24, 2010 , entered into between REPUBLIC   
OF 
INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions 
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred million United States 
Dollars (USD600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
- 2 - 
 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Rate; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
- 3 - 
 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:  A situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following:  The Bank is 
satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program 
and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859  
 
Jakarta  
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Chris Hoban 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds; Access to Information 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program 
 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower has issued a Presidential Regulation (Perpres No. 36/2010) on the 
Investment Negative List which updates restrictions on investment, including 
preferential treatment for ASEAN investors, and clarifies the grandfather clause, 
the treatment of publicly listed companies, and mergers and acquisitions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has submitted to the President a draft Presidential Regulation on 
the national logistics system (Sislognas) development blueprint.  
 
3. 
The Borrower has issued advertisements (invitations for bids) for PINTAR 
procurement as an initial step in the development of business process 
improvements and a new integrated information system.    
 
4. 
The Borrower has (a) implemented a revised program structure with measurable 
results and targets aligned with the organizational structure in the Borrower’s 
National Medium Term Development Plan (RPJM) for 2010-2014; and (b) based 
both indicative ceilings and budget proposals (RKA-KL) from all Line Ministries 
for the Fiscal Year 2011 budget on the revised structure.  
 
5. 
The Borrower has finalized academic papers for a draft procurement law and 
prepared a draft of the procurement law, ready for the public consultation 
process. 
 
6. 
BPKP has submitted to the Ministry of Finance a draft Presidential Regulation on 
government internal audit systems as required by Article 58 of Government 
Regulation No. 60/2008. 
 
7. 
The Ministry of Finance has submitted to the President the draft Government 
Regulation on accrual-based accounting. 
 
8. 
The Borrower has established an inter-ministerial National Team for the 
Acceleration of Poverty Reduction (National Team) by Presidential Regulation 
(Perpres 15/2010). 
 
9. 
The Borrower has revised the methodology to calculate the national poverty line 
by: (a) completing national poverty line simulations using alternative 
measurement methodologies; (b) conducting internal consultations in BPS and 
key government stakeholders to identify a poverty measurement methodology for 
- 6 - 
 
consideration; and (c) holding external consultations about the implications of 
adopting the revised methodology with universities, NGOs and key Line 
Ministries. 
 
10. 
The Borrower has strengthened PNPM fiduciary systems as outlined in the action 
plan dated February 16, 2010 by: (i) having documented and publicized major 
complaints and the steps taken to address these; (ii) the BPKP in partnership with 
the BAWASDA having been explicitly tasked with the systematic auditing of 
PNPM funds; and (iii) the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Public 
Works having submitted quarterly reports detailing the status of all known 
complaints to the National Team and to the Joint Management Committee 
members. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 Single Withdrawal Tranche 
600,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
600,000,000 
 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  
 
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.  No withdrawal shall be made of the 
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program 
being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
- 7 - 
 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
F. 
Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
G. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is March 31, 2011. 
- 8 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 01, 2020 
2.17 
October 01, 2020 
2.22 
April 01, 2021 
2.28 
October 01, 2021 
2.34 
April 01, 2022 
2.40 
October 01, 2022 
2.46 
April 01, 2023 
2.52 
October 01, 2023 
2.58 
April 01, 2024 
2.64 
October 01, 2024 
2.71 
April 01, 2025 
2.78 
October 01, 2025 
2.85 
April 01, 2026 
2.92 
October 01, 2026 
2.99 
April 01, 2027 
3.07 
October 01, 2027 
3.14 
April 01, 2028 
3.22 
October 01, 2028 
3.30 
April 01, 2029 
3.38 
October 01, 2029 
3.47 
April 01, 2030 
3.56 
October 01, 2030 
3.65 
April 01, 2031 
3.74 
October 01, 2031 
3.83 
April 01, 2032 
3.93 
October 01, 2032 
4.02 
- 9 - 
 
April 01, 2033 
4.12 
October 01, 2033 
4.23 
April 01, 2034 
4.33 
October 01, 2034 
4.44 
April 01, 2035 
4.71 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
- 10 - 
 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“ASEAN” means the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, an international 
organization. 
 
2. 
“BAWASDA” means Badan Pengawas Daerah, the supervisory boards 
constituted at the district level by the Borrower, and any successors thereto. 
 
3. 
“BPKP” means Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan, the 
Borrower’s Financial and Development Supervisory Board, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
4. 
“BPS” means Badan Pusat Statistik, the Borrower’s Central Bureau of Statistics, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
- 12 - 
 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31. 
  
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“Government Regulation” means Peraturan Pemerintah, a regulation issued by 
the government of the Borrower. 
 
- 13 - 
 
9. 
“Investment Negative List” means the Daftar Negatif Investasi (DNI), the 
Borrower’s Investment Negative List establishing those sectors closed, or 
partially closed, to private foreign and/or domestic investment (Perpres No. 
111/2007). 
 
10. 
“Joint Management Committee” means the Joint Management Committee 
established by the Borrower to manage PNPM, including representatives from 
key Line Ministries and other development partners. 
 
11. 
“Line Ministry” means an operational ministry or institution of the government 
of the Borrower, and “Line Ministries” means more than one Line Ministry. 
 
 
12. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Ministry of Home Affairs” means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“Ministry of Public Works” means the Ministry of Public Works of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“National Team” means the Borrower’s national Team for the Acceleration of 
Poverty Reduction, established pursuant to Perpres 15/2010, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
16. 
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations. 
 
17. 
“President” means the head of state of the Borrower. 
 
18. 
“Presidential Regulation” is the English language definition of a Perpres, a 
regulation of the President of the Borrower. 
 
19. 
“Perpres” means a Peraturan Presiden, a regulation of the President of the 
Borrower. 
 
20. 
“PINTAR” means the Borrower’s Program for Indonesian Tax Reform, financed 
in part by Bank Loan No. 7631-ID, dated February 9, 2009. 
 
21. 
“PNPM” means the Borrower’s Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat, 
or National Program for Community Empowerment, as set out in the PNPM 
General Guidelines (Pedoman Umum), issued by Tim Pengendali, dated, July 30, 
2007, and to which the Bank provides financing under Credit Nos. 4384-ID and 
4385-ID and Loan Nos. 7504-ID, 7505-ID, 7664-ID, 7666-ID, 7866-ID and 
7867-ID. 
 
- 14 - 
 
22. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated, October 12, 2010, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
23. 
“RKA-KL” means a Rencana Kerja dan Anggaran Kementerian/Lembaga, a 
work and budget of a ministry or institution of the Borrower. 
 
24. 
“RPJM” means the Borrower’s Rencana Pembangunan Jangka Menengah 
Nasional 2010-2014, or National Medium Term Development Plan. 
 
25. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Sislognas” means sistem logistik nasional, the Borrower’s national logistics 
system. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
… 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
- 15 - 
 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
… 
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:  
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
 
 
 
