 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7957-TU 
 
 
 
 
ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE PROGRAM 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(TURKEY COMPONENT – THIRD TEİAŞ PROJECT) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated October 4, 2010  
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7957-TU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated October 4, 2010, between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). 
   
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement the amount of one hundred sixty nine million two 
hundred thousand Euro (€169,200,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing of the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.    
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
 ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
the Project Implementing Entity. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and the 
 
3 
Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
4.03 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Undersecretary of Treasury.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
 
Basbakanlik 
 
Hazine Mustesarligi 
 
Inonu Bulvari 
 
Emek-Ankara 
 
Turkey  
 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(90) (312) 212 8550 
(90) (312) 212 8737 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
  and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4 
 
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Özgür Pehlivan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the reliability and capacity of the 
power transmission system in the Republic of Turkey and improve its ability to integrate 
renewable energy into the system. 
 
The Project is part of the Energy Community of South East Europe Program and 
consists of the following parts: 
Part A: Transmission System Strengthening and Expansion 
 
Carrying out of sub-project investments by the Project Implementation Entity to 
expand the capacity and increase the reliability of the power transmission system 
and to enhance the ability of the transmission system to integrate renewable 
energy, including investments in substations, cables and related systems.  
Part B: Institutional Strengthening 
Provision of technical assistance, training and goods to strengthen the 
institutional and operation capacity of the Project Implementing Entity, including 
in the areas of financial management, accounting, audit, enterprise resource 
planning, and wholesale markets (balancing and day-ahead electricity markets).  
 
6 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity,  
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered between 
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank 
(“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”).  
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and shall maintain the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement as agreed with the Bank.   
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines which are applicable to all IBRD 
loans and IDA credits and grants. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and to prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis 
of indicators agreed with the Bank.   Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part 
of the Project Report, not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
 
7 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one Fiscal Year of the Project Implementing Entity.   The Borrower 
shall cause the audited Financial Statements for each such period to be: 
(a) furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period; 
and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods (Including Design, Supply and Installation).   All goods required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured 
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods (including design, supply and 
installation) 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
8 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Direct Contracting 
(b) Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
(b) 
Quality-based selection 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Single-source Selection 
(e) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
 
9 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
Category 
 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
exclusive of Taxes 
 
(1) Goods (including 
design, supply and 
installation)  
165,500,000 
100% 
  
(2) Consultants’ services 
and training 
 
3,700,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
169,200,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
Section V. 
Access to Information 
 
The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any information related to the Legal 
Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to information, in effect at the time of 
such disclosure. 
  
 
 
10 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by 
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 
Beginning September 15, 2015  
 
through March 15, 2025 
 
 
 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
 
11 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
12 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
4. 
“EMF” means the Environment Management Framework, dated July 23, 2010, 
and approved by the Bank describing the environmental issues, mitigation, 
monitoring and institutional measures for the Project. 
5. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity starting 
on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of the 
Appendix.  
7. 
“LAPF” means the Land Acquisition Policy Framework dated July 23, 2010, and 
approved by the Bank describing the principles and procedures for the 
acquisition of land required for investments under the Project. 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, dated August 2, 
2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
10. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Türkiye Elektrik İletim A.Ş., also known 
as TEİAŞ defined below. 
 
13 
11. 
 “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall 
make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
12. 
“TEİAŞ” means Türkiye Elektrik İletim A.Ş., a joint stock company established 
and operating pursuant to Decree No. 2001/2026 dated February 5, 2001, issued 
by the Borrower. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier 
that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” set forth in the Appendix is 
modified to read as follows: 
 “ ‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.”  
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, which are applicable to all IBRD 
loans and IDA credits and grants, are as follows:   
 
14 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
Footnotes: 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
15 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
