CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7959- PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Kapitbisig Laban sa Kahirapan- 
Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services Project)  
(KALAHI-CIDSS) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 3, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 3, 2010, between the REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES 
(“the 
Borrower”) 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“the Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement or, if not otherwise defined, in the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty nine million one hundred 
twenty four thousand dollars ($59,124,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“the Loan”), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“the Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
2
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through DSWD in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
(a) 
the Borrower, through DSWD, has revised the Operations Manual 
(excluding its sub-manuals) in a manner acceptable to the Bank, in order to take 
into account the overall revisions in Project implementation and management 
arrangements from the Original Project to this Project; and 
(b) 
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank an  Annex to the Project 
Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank listing the additional provinces, 
and municipalities therein, eligible to participate in the Project. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Finance 
Department of Finance Building 
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex 
Roxas Blvd. 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines 
Fax: (63-2) 523-9216 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
4
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES  
 
By /s/ Cesar Purisima 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Bert Hofman 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1  
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to empower Local Communities in targeted poor 
Municipalities and Selected Urban Areas, to achieve improved access to sustainable basic 
public services and to participate in more inclusive Local Government Unit planning and 
budgeting. 
The Project, which shall be carried out in the Project Provinces and 
Municipalities and which comprises of the Original Project with the modifications set 
forth below, consists of the following parts, subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective. 
Part A Grants to Barangays in Rural Areas 
1. 
(a) Identification, in rural areas, of Barangay needs and assessment of local 
resources and capacity including social mobilization; (b) preparation of proposals 
by community volunteers; and (c) supervision and community-based monitoring 
of Sub-project operations and maintenance; all through the provision of Grants to 
Barangays. 
2. 
Carrying out of investment Sub-projects to meet the needs identified in the 
preceding paragraph through the provision of Grants to Barangays. 
Part B Capacity Building and Implementation Support 
1. 
Mobilizing Local Communities to participate in the Project. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of Local Government Units to initiate, plan, 
implement, manage and supervise Sub-projects, through provision of technical 
assistance and training. 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of Local Communities to carry out social 
accountability activities, including implementation of a grievance redress system, 
third-party monitoring, and active information disclosure. 
6
Part C Grants to Barangays in Urban Areas 
1. 
(a) Identification, in urban areas, of Barangay needs and assessment of local 
resources and capacity including community based poverty mapping and social 
mobilization and planning; (b) preparation of proposals by community 
volunteers, and  (c) supervision and community-based monitoring of Sub-project 
operations and maintenance; all through the provision of Grants to Barangays. 
2. 
Carrying out of investment Sub-projects in Selected Urban Areas responding to 
the specific concerns of urban poor communities including housing, resettlement, 
livelihoods, and urban sanitation and environmental issue in Selected Urban 
Areas, through provision of Grants to Barangays. 
Part D Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the National Project Management Office and Local 
Communities to manage, monitor and evaluate implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
Carrying out audits of the records, accounts and financial statements of 
expenditures relating to the implementation of community development Sub-
projects. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements  
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the National Steering Committee with functions, 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank; managed and staffed with 
qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers, to provide overall 
policy direction and coordination for the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Technical Working Committee and National 
Project Management Team with functions, responsibilities and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank; and managed and staffed with qualified and experienced 
personnel in adequate numbers, to provide technical advice and guidance to the 
National Steering Committee for the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain the National Project Management Office within 
DSWD with functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank; 
and managed and staffed with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate 
numbers, to manage national implementation of the Project and provide inter-
Regional coordination for such implementation. 
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain a Regional Project Management Office in each of 
the Regions in which the Project Provinces and Municipalities are located: with 
functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank; and managed 
and staffed with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers, to 
provide technical guidance for and supervise and monitor the Regional 
implementation of the Project.  
B. 
Implementation Arrangements  
1. 
The Borrower, through DSWD, shall: 
(a) 
not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank 
the fully revised Operations Manual, including all its sub-manuals, and 
8
the fully revised Project Implementation Manual, all acceptable to the 
Bank. 
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual and the Operations Manual, as revised from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of this agreement or with the written 
consent of the Bank; and 
(c) 
not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Project 
Implementation Manual or the Operations Manual, without the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
C. 
Sub-projects  
Criteria for the Selection and Procedures, Terms and Conditions of Sub-grants
1. 
For purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall select Sub-
projects and make Grants to Beneficiaries, in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures and on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual, the Operations Manual and its sub-manuals, including the following:  
(a) 
An activity or activities shall be selected only if it is a community 
development project that is technically, financially and environmentally 
viable, and socially and economically justified. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.05 of the General 
Conditions, a Sub-project shall not include expenditures for any of the 
following activities or items: 
(i) 
Weapons, 
chainsaws, 
explosives, 
pesticides, 
insecticides, 
herbicides, asbestos, and other potentially dangerous materials 
and equipment; 
(ii) 
Fishing boats beyond the weight limit set by the Philippine 
Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and related 
equipment; 
(iii) 
Civil works in that affect Protected Areas. 
(iv) 
Purchase of or compensation for land. 
(v) 
Micro-credit and livelihood activities which involve on-lending 
of Project funds. 
9
(vi) 
Maintenance and operation of facilities that have been the 
subject of civil works financed by proceeds of the Original Loan 
or this Loan. 
(vii) 
Activities that have alternative prior sources of committed 
funding. 
(viii) 
Recurrent Government expenditures, including salaries. 
(ix) 
Civil works for government administration or religious purposes. 
(x) 
Political and religious activities (including rallies) and facilities 
and materials related to such activities. 
(xi) 
Activities that employ children below the age of 16 years. 
(xii) 
Activities that exploit an individual or individuals. 
(xiii) 
International travel. 
(xiv) 
Consumption items. 
(c) 
A Grant to a Barangay shall be approved only if: 
(i) 
a Memorandum of Agreement, with terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, has been entered into between DSWD 
and the Municipality in which the Barangay is located and said 
Municipality has adopted the Operations Manual; 
(ii) 
the Barangay has prepared an environmental assessment and an 
environmental management plan on the basis of standards 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the principles set 
forth in the Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines, in the 
event that the environmental screening carried out in accordance 
with said principles concludes that such assessment and 
management plan are required; 
(iii) 
the Barangay has prepared a resettlement action plan satisfactory 
to the Bank, and in accordance with the principles set forth in the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, in the 
event the Sub-project involves resettlement of Displaced 
Persons; and 
(iv) 
the Barangay has carried out consultations with and a process 
of informed participation by Indigenous Peoples, in accordance 
with principles set forth in the Indigenous Peoples Planning 
10 
 
Framework, in the event that the Sub-project impacts or may 
impact such peoples and to ensure that the design and 
implementation of the Sub-project adequately addresses the 
needs and cultural preferences of such peoples. 
 
(d) 
Each Grant shall be made on conditions whereby the Borrower shall 
enter into a Sub-project Implementation Agreement with the Beneficiary 
to obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, including without limitation the rights to: 
(i) 
require the Beneficiary to have in place prior to approval of a 
Grant and, thereafter maintain, a Sub-project implementation 
team, with responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank, and managed and staffed with qualified 
personnel in adequate number to manage the implementation of 
the Sub-project; 
(ii) 
require the Beneficiary to carry out its Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial, social and environmental standards and 
practices, including in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
(iii) 
require the Beneficiary to provide or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Sub-Project; 
(iv) 
require the Beneficiary to make adequate provision for the 
insurance of any goods required for the Sub- Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, against hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the 
goods to the place of their use or installation. Any indemnity for 
such insurance shall be payable in a freely usable Currency to 
replace or repair such goods. 
(v) 
require that the works to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Section III (E) to this Schedule and shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-project; 
11 
 
(vi) 
require that, where applicable, the Beneficiary implement an 
environmental management plan, resettlement action plan and 
Indigenous Peoples Plan (including a program of consultation 
with and informed participation by Indigenous Peoples), if 
applicable, in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
(vii) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank such 
goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in 
the Sub-project, the operation thereof and any relevant records 
and documents; 
(viii) 
require the Beneficiary to provide the Borrower and the Bank all 
such information as the Borrower or the Bank may reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the 
benefits to be derived from its respective Sub-project; 
(ix) 
require the Beneficiary to maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project 
and the achievement of its objectives; 
(x) 
require the Beneficiary to maintain (A a financial management 
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (B) at 
the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial 
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as 
so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; and 
(xi) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant upon failure by such Beneficiary to 
perform its obligations under its Sub-project Implementation 
Agreement with the Borrower. 
12 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
13 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this  
Schedule 2 acceptable to the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one 
(1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) prepare a mid-term report on or about June 30, 2012, integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to the preceding 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project (including 
implementation of environmental management plans, resettlement action plans 
and program of consultation with and informed participation by Indigenous 
Peoples referred to in paragraph 1(d) (vi) of Section I.C of this Schedule) during 
the period preceding the date such report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
(b) review with the Bank, by July 31, 2012, or other  later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in the preceding paragraph; and 
(c) thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
14 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and works All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.  
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and works: The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
15 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the provisions of Annex 2 of this 
Schedule 2 
(b) National Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Community participation 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least-cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Single Source Selection 
(d) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (b) each contract for goods 
procured through direct contracting; (c) each contract for consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (d) each contract procured through 
single source selection. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
16 
 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to (a) finance the Front-end Fee in 
accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General Conditions; and (b) finance 
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of taxes) 
(1) Grants under Part A 
and C of the Project 
50,900,000 
100% of Grant amount 
disbursed 
(2) Goods, Consultants’ 
services 
and 
Incremental 
operating 
costs 
8,076,190 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
147,810 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(3) Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest 
Rate 
Collars 
0
Amount due under 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
59,124,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that an amount of 
$1,000,000 may be made before that day for expenditures incurred on or after October 1, 
2009. 
17 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2014. 
18 
 
19 
 
Annex 1  
to  
Schedule 2 
 
Project Performance Indicators 
 
Performance Indicators 
Baseline 
Value 
(April 2010) 
Target Value 
(May 2014) 
Source of Data 
Development Objective 
 
% of households that report better access 
to basic services compared to KCAF 
initiation 
0
40% 
KCAF Impact 
Evaluation Reports  
% of households that report an increase in 
knowledge, skills and confidence to 
participate collectively in community 
development activities compared to KCAF 
initiation 
 
0
30% 
KCAF Impact 
Evaluation Reports 
% of members from marginalized groups 
that attend Barangay assemblies 
 
35% 
 
50% 
KCAF Impact 
Evaluation Reports 
% of legislated municipal budgets with, at 
least, 10 percent increase in allocation for 
community identified priorities compared 
to KCAF initiation 
0
TBD1
KCAF Impact 
Evaluation Reports 
MIS data 
Barangay Grants 
 
% of barangays that have completed 
training on participatory situation analysis, 
planning, project development, 
implementation and monitoring and 
evaluation 
 
50% 
 
80% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of barangays that have completed 
specific training on subproject 
management and implementation 
30% 
40% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of PSA identified priorities funded with 
non-KALAHI-CIDSS sources 
N/A 
10% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of completed KCAF subprojects 
implemented in compliance with technical 
N/A 
 
85% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
1 Will be determined after social preparation activities have been completed in all municipalities 
20 
 
plans and within schedule and budget 
% of completed KCAF subprojects that 
meet basic financial standards based on 
approved Finance and Administration Sub-
Manual 
 
N/A 
 
85% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of communities and.or barangays with 
KCAF subprojects that have functionality 
evaluation rating of satisfactory or higher 
 
N/A 
 
85% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
Capacity Building and Implementation Support 
 
% of barangays with community 
development plans prepared in accordance 
with KCAF participatory process 
 
40% 
80% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of LGUs that satisfactorily implement 
their Participatory, Transparency and 
Accountability (PTA) Integration Plans in 
accordance with their KCAF MOA and 
committed to sustaining the PTA as part of 
their sustainability plans 
 
40% 
80% 
Annual KCAF Progress 
reports 
% of barangays with citizens, other than 
public officials, who participate in regular 
municipal-level resource allocation forum 
 
TBD 
 
80% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of Makamasang Tugon municipalities 
that have established expanded Municipal 
Development Councils (MDC) for broader 
consultation with civil society 
representatives to obtain inputs for the 
Municipal Development Plan (MDP) 
TBD 
 
85% 
Quarterly KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of MLGUs that provide technical 
assistance in subproject preparation, 
implementation and monitoring based on 
MOA 
N/A 
 
80% 
Annual  KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of municipalities that provide KCAF 
Local Counterpart Contributions (LCC) 
based on their LCC delivery plan 
 
N/A 
 
80% 
Annual  KCAF 
Progress reports 
% of registered KCAF grievances 
satisfactorily resolved in line with KCAF 
Grievance Redress System Sub-Manual 
N/A 
 
80% 
Quarterly KCAF GRS 
Monitoring reports 
21 
 
Urban KALAHI-CIDSS 
 
Pilot implementation guidelines developed 
N/A 
Completed 
during first 6 
months of 
implement-ation 
Actual guidelines 
Pilot-testing in four urban poor areas 
completed (includes development of key 
performance indicators0 
 
N/A 
Completed at 
end of project 
Completion Report 
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) 
Multi-stakeholder oversight and 
coordinating committees at all levels in 
place and functional in accordance with 
their respective Terms of Reference 
 
N/A 
 
Completed 
Annually 
Committee minutes of 
meetings and 
resolutions 
% of national and regional project teams 
that meet performance targets set by 
project management 
 
N/A 
 
85% 
Annual DSWD Field 
Office reports 
 
Framework for mainstreaming KC policies 
and approaches into DSWD operations 
adopted 
 
N/A 
Completed 
Annually 
Copy of Mainstreaming 
Framework 
22 
 
Annex 2  
to  
Schedule 2  
Additional Procedures for National Competitive Bidding 
1. 
Eligibility screening shall not be applied. However, bids that do not contain any 
of the following documents will not pass the documentary compliance check:             
(a) evidence of the required financial, technical or production capability; (b) 
audited financial statements; (c) credit line or cash deposit certificate; (d) bid 
security; and (e) authority of the bid signatory. 
2. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices provided the following conditions are met:        
(a) bidding documents are obtainable free of charge on a freely accessible 
website.  (b) the agency has procedures in place to ensure that the ABC is based 
on Engineer’s Estimate; (c) the agency has trained cost estimators on estimating 
prices and analyzing bid variance; and (d) the agency has established a system to 
monitor and report bid prices relative to ABC and Engineer’s estimate.  
3. 
Domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the evaluation of bids, 
and other preference in effect in the Philippines will not be used except with prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
4. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if interested, 
without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint venture, with 
local firms. Moreover, foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, even without 
registration, licensing, and other government authorizations, leaving these 
requirements for after award and before signing of contract. 
5. 
Alternative procurement methods defined in the implementing rules and 
regulations such as Limited Source Bidding, Direct Contracting and Shopping as 
acceptable.  The use of the other alternative methods will require prior Bank 
concurrence. 
23 
 
SCHEDULE 3  
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 1 and November 1 
Beginning November 1, 2020  
through November 1, 2034 
 
3.33% 
On May 1, 2035 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
24 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
25 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Barangay” means an administrative unit within a city or municipality in the 
territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means a Barangay selected in accordance with the policies and 
procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, to receive financing 
for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part A or C of the Project; and 
“Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such Beneficiaries.  
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services” and “CIDSS” mean 
the Borrower’s on-going program, established by Executive Order 443 of 1997, 
of support to the poorest Barangays for carrying out of community-based 
projects. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
7. 
“Displaced Person” includes a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
Protected Areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
8. 
“DSWD” means the Borrower’s Department of Social Welfare and 
Development, and any successor thereto. 
9. 
“Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines” means the Environmental 
Impact Assessment Guidelines for the Original Project as revised and duly 
adopted by the Borrower and publically disclosed on April 15, 2010, which sets 
26 
 
forth guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, to assess, mitigate, manage and 
monitor environmental impact of the Project. 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
11. 
 “Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and its own funds to a Beneficiary to finance the cost of a Sub-project 
under Part A or Part C of the Project; and “Grants” means more than one Grant. 
12. 
 “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable and documented 
expenditures incurred by DSWD for hiring of contractual personnel (but 
excluding staff salaries); travel; materials and supplies; and advocacy activities, 
for purposes of implementing the Project and which expenditures would not have 
been incurred absent the Project 
13. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the Indigenous Peoples 
Planning Framework for the Original Project as revised and duly adopted by the 
Borrower and publically disclosed by the Borrower on  April 15, 2010, which 
sets forth the guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, to address any social or cultural 
impact on Indigenous Peoples caused by the execution of the Project, including 
screening and monitoring procedures and the development of Indigenous Peoples 
development plan or plans, where applicable. 
14. 
“Indigenous Peoples” means distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural groups 
which possess the following characteristics in varying degrees: (a) self-
identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and recognition 
of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct 
habitats or ancestral territories in the project area and to the natural resources in 
these habitats and territories (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political 
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and 
(d) an indigenous language, often different from the official language of the 
country or region; and including groups that have lost collective attachment to 
geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories because of forced 
severance. 
15. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework for the Original Project, as 
revised and duly adopted by the Borrower and publically disclosed by the 
Borrower on April 15, 2010, which sets forth the principles and procedures, 
satisfactory to the Bank, governing land or other asset acquisition from, 
resettlement and rehabilitation of, and compensation to Displaced Persons, as 
well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
principles and procedures. 
27 
 
16. 
“Local Communities” means small and distinct communities in Project Provinces 
and Municipalities, as described in the Project Implementation Manual. 
17. 
“Local Government Units” and “LGUs mean the political subdivisions of the 
Borrower at the provincial, city, municipal or Barangay level; and “LGU” means 
any one of such LGUs. 
18. 
“Municipalities” means LGUs several of which constitute a Province and which 
are made up of several Barangays. 
19. 
“National Project Management Office” means the office to be maintained by the 
Borrower pursuant to Schedule 2, Section 1 Part A.3 to this Agreement to 
manage Regional implementation of the Project and to provide inter-Regional 
coordination for such implementation. 
20. 
“National Steering Committee” means the committee to be maintained by the 
Borrower pursuant to Schedule 2, Section 1 Part A.1 to this Agreement. 
21. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank for the Kapitbisig Laban sa Kahirapan – Comprehensive and Integrated 
Delivery of Social Services Project (KALAHI-CIDSS) dated October 7, 2002 as 
subsequently amended. 
22. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual, including sub operations manuals, 
prepared for the Original Project setting out the core operational approaches and 
systems, for the Project, as revised pursuant to Schedule 2, Section 1, Paragraph 
B of this Agreement. 
23. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 8, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
26. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual, prepared for the Original 
Project, setting out among other things: (i) the Project Provinces and 
Municipalities; (ii) criteria for the selection of Sub-projects and Beneficiaries; 
(iii) procurement procedures as set forth in Schedule 2, Section III to this 
Agreement; (iv) reporting requirements and financial management procedures, 
including audit procedures, as set in Schedule 2, Section II to this Agreement; 
28 
 
and (v) the Project Performance Indicators set forth in Annex 1 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, and including the Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines, 
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework and the Indigenous 
Peoples Planning Framework, as such manual revised by the Borrower pursuant 
to Schedule 2, Section I, Part B of this Agreement, or with the written consent of 
the Bank. 
27. 
“Project Provinces and Municipalities” means the forty two (42) provinces, and 
the Municipalities therein, listed in the Annex to the Project Implementation 
Manual entitled “Project Provinces and Municipalities”, as such list may be 
revised up to the Effective Date, which provinces are located in Regions IV 
through XII, CARAGA and the Cordillera Administrative Region in the territory 
of the Borrower; and such other provinces and Municipalities of the Borrower 
which may from time to time be designated as Project Provinces and 
Municipalities by written agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
28. 
“Protected Areas” means environmentally sensitive areas protected by the 
Borrower’s Law No. RA No 7586 as such law may be revised from time to time. 
29. 
“Provinces” means the 80 LGUs which make up the top tier of the Borrower’s 
local government administrative structure. 
30. 
“Regional Project Management Office” means the office to be maintained by the 
Borrower in each of the Regions in which the Project Provinces and 
Municipalities are located pursuant to Schedule 2, Section 1 Part A.4 to this 
Agreement, to provide technical guidance for, and supervise and monitor, the 
implementation of the Project and Sub-projects. 
31. 
“Regions” means the fourteen (14) regions in the territory of the Borrower 
without executive powers (with the exception of the Autonomous Region in 
Muslim Mindanao), that serve primarily to organize the Provinces for 
administrative convenience. 
32. 
“Selected Urban Areas” means low incomes areas in Metro Manila, Luzon, 
Visayas and Mindanao whose Barangays have been selected in agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank to receive Grants under Part C of the Project, 
subject to the selection criteria and terms and conditions set out in Schedule 2, 
Section I, Part C to this Agreement. 
33. 
“Sub-project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the relevant Beneficiary and the Borrower, through DSWD, 
pursuant to Schedule 2, Section I, Part C to this Agreement, for purposes of 
implementing the activities under Sub-projects. 
29 
 
34. 
“Sub-project” means a specific community development activity or activities, 
including but not limited to, investment in economic and social infrastructure, 
environmental conservation measures and capacity building, which has or have 
been selected to receive a Grant under Part A or Part C of the Project, or has or 
have received such Grant. 
35. 
“Technical Working Committee” means the committee established by the 
Borrower to provide technical advice and guidance to the National Steering 
Committee for the implementation of the Project and to be maintained for the 
duration of the Project as provided for in Schedule 2, Section 1, Part A.2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
30 
 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
