CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7937-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Yunnan Urban Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 23, 2010  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 23, 2010 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined and modified in Appendix to this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000) 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
party to the Subsidiary Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE V – TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland  
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project and the Original Project is to assist Yunnan Province 
in improving the effectiveness and coverage of critical urban infrastructure services in 
selected counties and the effectiveness of lake basin management in Dianchi, through 
investments in systems for the management of wastewater, water supply, solid waste, 
river environment and cultural heritage. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, which are activities related to the 
Original Project and aimed at achieving parts of the above stated objective, to be carried 
out in Zhaoyang District of Zhaotong Municipality, subject to modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1. Urban Environmental Infrastructure Development 
 
Develop critical urban environmental infrastructure in Zhaoyang District of 
Zhaotong Municipality as follows: 
 
(a) 
Development of wastewater and water supply systems, including expansion of 
wastewater treatment plants; construction of sewage collection and drainage 
networks; construction of water supply treatment plants and networks and 
construction of water transmission mains. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of investments to improve management of the river environment, 
including construction and rehabilitation of river embankments, and dredging of 
rivers, all to mitigate against erosion and floods and control and scale down 
pollution and restore the river eco-system. 
 
(c) 
Provision of support for the implementation of Project activities, including:  
 
(i) 
with respect to Zhaoyang District of Zhaotong Municipality, provision of 
technical assistance and equipment for supervision of environmental 
infrastructure construction and for environmental monitoring; and 
 
(ii) 
with respect to other implementing agencies and entities, provision of 
technical assistance, training courses and study tours to assist in:  
 
(A) 
detailed engineering design, design review, procurement 
management and contract supervision;  
 
(B) 
operation and management of water supply, wastewater and river 
management facilities; and  
 
(C) 
building capacity for Project management and operation.   
6
Part 2. Resettlement 
 
Carry out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with 
the implementation of Part 1 of the Project. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be 
recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of eight (8) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than March 15 and 
September 15 in each year, starting on September 15, 2011.  
 
8
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report by not later than 
March 15 and September 15 in each year after the end of each calendar semester, 
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
9
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.  In addition, the procedures to be 
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in 
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic 
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall 
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
10 
 
(iv) All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: 
(A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and 
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall 
not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake 
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents 
or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a 
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
11 
 
(xii) All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall 
not take place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered price 
of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope 
of the awarded contract.   
 
(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity shall have in place provisions 
for bidders to protest. 
(b) 
Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single-source Selection 
(d)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
12 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed  
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Works under Part 1 of the Project 
to be implemented in Zhaoyang 
District of Zhaotong Municipality 
57,846,000 
65% 
(2)  Goods under Part 1 of the Project 
to be implemented in Zhaoyang 
District of Zhaotong Municipality 
801,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services under  
Part 1 of the Project to be 
provided for Zhaoyang District of 
Zhaotong Municipality 
1,203,000 
100% 
 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
150,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
13 
 
(5)     Premium for Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
60,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after  
January 1, 2010 for Eligible Expenditures; or   
 
(b) 
under each of Categories (1) and (2) until the Bank shall have notified 
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of its receipt of the 
Subsidiary Agreements entered into between Zhaoyang District of 
Zhaotong Municipality and ZUCIDC and ZMWSWC, satisfactory to the 
Bank and in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part E,  
paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
 
14 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning October 15, 2018 through 
October 15, 2034 
 
2.94% 
On April 15, 2035 
2.98% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
15 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, if at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under 
which invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment 
Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
16 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006.  
 
4. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“District Project Management Office” or “DPMO” means the District Foreign 
Capital Utilization Office under Zhaoyang District of Zhaotong Municipality and 
referred to in Section I, Part A, paragraph 1(d) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plans” or “EMPs” means, collectively the three (3) 
Environmental Impact Assessments and Environmental Management Plans for 
investments under Part 1 of the Project in Zhaoyang District of Zhaotong 
Municipality all dated March 2010, which set out, with respect to the Project, 
measures for: the protection of the environment, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said 
plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and  the 
acronym “EMP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of ZUCIDC and ZMWSWC, covering the 
period January 1 through December 31.  
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
17 
 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
9. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the agreement for the Yunnan Urban 
Environment Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated July 22, 2009. 
 
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 21, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Project Dams” means, collectively, Yudong, Beizha, Jiaojiazha, Qingmen, 
Yangjiafen, Fangyangchong, Shenggentang, Toudaogou in Zhaoyang District of 
Zhaotong Municipality, and “Project Dam” means, individually, either of such 
Project Dams. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Borrower’s Province of Yunnan, and any 
successor thereto.  
 
15. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAPs” means, collectively, the following plans 
which set out the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and 
other assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons on account of the execution of Part 1 of the Project, as well as 
monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as 
the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank: 
 
(a) 
the Resettlement Action Plan dated February 4, 2010 for investments 
under Part 1 of the Project to be carried out in Zhaoyang District of 
Zhaotong Municipality; and 
 
(b) 
the resettlement action plans to be prepared by the Zhaoyang District of 
Zhaotong Municipality pursuant to Section I, Part C, paragraph 1(b)(ii) 
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and agreed to by the Bank;  
 
The acronym “RAP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
16. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy Framework 
dated February 4, 2010 which framework sets out the policies and procedures for 
land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required 
18 
 
during implementation of the activities described in Section I, Part C,  
paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
17. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
be entered into between Zhaoyang District of Zhaotong Municipality and  
ZMWSWC and the Subsidiary Agency Agreement to be entered into between 
Zhaoyang District of Zhaotong Municipality and ZUCIDC pursuant to Section I, 
paragraphs E.1(a) and E.1(b) respectively of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and supplements to said agreements; and a “Subsidiary 
Agreement” means, individually, any of such Subsidiary Agreements. 
 
18. 
“Yunnan Project Management Office” or “YPMO” means the Project 
management office referred to in Section I, Part A, paragraph 1(b) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Zhaotong Urban Construction Investment and Development Company Limited” 
or “ZUCIDC”  means the company  established and operating pursuant to its:  
(a) charter issued on October 21, 2008; and (b) business license  
number 530600000000784 issued by Zhaotong Municipality Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau on November 22, 2006, and any successor 
thereto.  
 
20. 
“Zhaotong Municipality” means a municipality within the jurisdiction of Yunnan 
Province”, and any successor thereto. 
 
21. 
“Zhaotong Municipal Water Supply and Wastewater Company” or “ZMWSWC” 
means 
the 
company 
 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
its:  
(a) charter issued on August 2003; and (b) business license number 
530602000000832 issued by Zhaoyang District Industrial and Commercial 
Administration Bureau on June 3, 2006, and any successor thereto. 
 
22. 
“Zhaoyang District” means a district within the jurisdiction of Zhaotong 
Municipality of Yunnan Province and successor thereto. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
19 
 
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
