 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7876-MA 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
(Additional Loan for the Second Rural Roads Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
and 
 
 
CAISSE POUR LE FINANCEMENT ROUTIER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated June 17, 2010 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated June 17, 2010, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and CAISSE POUR LE 
FINANCEMENT ROUTIER (“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing additional 
financing for activities related to the Original Project as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Euro (€60,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement] (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Director of the Borrower. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that Part A of the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Basic Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
(c) 
The Program shall have been amended, waived or abrogated in a manner 
that could materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project or the achievement of its objective. 
 
(d) 
The Project Implementation Plan shall have been amended, waived or 
abrogated so as to adversely affect the efficiency, economy and 
transparency of various operational, implementation, environmental and 
social safeguards and procurement procedures under the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is the President of its Board of Directors.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
 
Caisse pour le Financement Routier 
P.O. Box 6465 
Madinat Al Irfane 
10100 Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
212 537 71 35 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
 
CAISSE POUR LE FINANCEMENT ROUTIER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ahmed Imzel 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Francoise Clottes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase rural populations’ access to all-weather 
roads in support of the Guarantor’s Program. 
 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
At the central level, the Borrower shall be responsible for the administrative and 
financial management of Part A of the Project and shall contribute to the overall Project 
coordination and monitoring of progress and implementation.  
 
2. 
Pursuant to the Framework Agreement: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall collaborate with DR to prepare the multi-year 
strategy as well as implementation, investment and financing plans for all rural road 
activities proposed to be financed under the Program, taking into account the overall 
progress of the Program and its impact on the national rural road accessibility index. 
 
(b) 
Responsibility for the coordination and monitoring of the execution of 
Project activities shall be vested with DR in accordance with said Framework Agreement 
and the processes and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Plan.  
 
(c) 
At the regional and provincial levels, DRETs and DPETs shall be 
responsible for Project implementation coordination, and monitoring in accordance with 
the processes and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, and shall liaise 
with the Guarantor’s local authorities benefiting from the Program, under the respective 
Regional Framework Agreements and the Specific Provincial Agreements entered into 
with said authorities. 
 
3. 
Pursuant to the Framework Letter: 
 
(a) 
DR, through PMU, shall centralize all technical and financial data related 
to the Program and prepare and submit to the Bank consolidated annual implementation 
reports on said Program.  
 
(b) 
CNER shall be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Program.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards  
The Borrower shall take al necessary measures to implement Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the Framework Letter, the Framework Agreement, the EMP, 
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, the Project Implementation 
Plan and the Manual, the provisions of which shall not be amended or waived without the 
Bank’s prior agreement. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Reports   
 
1. 
Not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall prepare an 
annual implementation report, satisfactory to the Bank, covering the technical, financial 
and accounting aspects of Part A of the Project for the twelve (12) month period 
preceding the date of said report, said report to be included in the consolidated annual 
implementation report to be prepared by DR pursuant to Section IA.3 (a) of this Schedule 
2. 
 
2. 
Not later than ninety (90) days following the twelve (12) months period 
commencing at the Effectiveness Date and, thereafter, for every subsequent twelve (12) 
month period until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for 
its review and approval, progress reports prepared in accordance with environmental 
indicators set forth in the environmental assessment procedures included in the EMP. 
 
3. 
Not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the 
Project, in consultation with DR, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for its review 
and assessment, an Annual Report, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and with the format included in the 
Project Implementation Plan: (a) describing progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Annual Work Plan approved for said Fiscal Year and evidencing compliance by the 
Borrower with the monitoring and performance indicators agreed between the Bank and 
the Borrower; and (b) detailing the budgetary allocations for the Borrower for the 
following Fiscal Year as shall be necessary to ensure adequate financing and proper 
implementation of said year’s Annual Work Plan including: (i) confirmation that said 
Plan (A) is technically and financially viable; (B) includes the economic rate of return or 
the cost effectiveness indicator; and (C) complies with the EMP, including the 
environmental assessment procedures, and with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework; (ii) results on the use of the environmental assessment procedures 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
 
included in the EMP and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, 
including, where appropriate, a copy of the applicable environmental assessment study 
and the land acquisition plan; and (iii) confirmation that: (A) the rural roads retained for 
rehabilitation and construction have been selected within the Program and in accordance 
with the participatory process described in the Project Implementation Plan; and (B) the 
rehabilitation and construction of the rural roads referred to in the preceding sub-section 
(A) comply with the Regional Framework Agreements and Specific Provincial 
Agreements relevant to said roads.  
 
4. 
Not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the 
Project, the Borrower, in consultation with DR, shall submit to the Bank an Annual Work 
Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the format included in the Project 
Implementation Plan, setting forth, inter alia, work programs, budgets, the Annual 
Allocation and the Procurement Plan agreed between the Bank and the Borrower for the 
following Fiscal Year.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. In addition, the 
Borrower shall have its financial statements reflecting its general operations and 
its financial condition (the “General Financial Statements”) prepared in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of 
the Financial Statements and the General Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one Fiscal Year.  The audited Financial Statements and the audited 
General Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
provisions:  
 
 
1. The bidding documents include explicitly the bid evaluation method, 
award criteria and bidder qualification criteria; 
 
2. Technical, administrative and financial envelopes are opened 
immediately after the bid opening session has started and prices are read 
aloud; 
 
3. The bids are evaluated on the basis of the price and any other criteria 
expressed either in pass/fail terms or in monetary terms and disclosed in 
the bidding document; 
 
4. Contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder who has submitted the 
 
 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
 
least-cost evaluated and substantially responsive bid as stipulated in the 
bidding document. 
 
5. Standard bidding documents and bid evaluation reports found 
acceptable by the Bank are used. 
 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least-cost Selection 
(d)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Single-source Selection 
(f)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
 
 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1)  Goods, works,  
consultants’ services 
and training under 
approved Annual Work 
Plans 
 
60,000,000 
100% of the Annual 
Allocation under the 
Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2010; 100% 
of the Annual Allocation 
under the Annual Work 
Plan ending December 31, 
2011; and 100% of the 
Annual Allocation under 
the Annual Work Plan 
ending December 31, 2012 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
60,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee;   
 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement;   
 
 
(c)  
for payments made for expenditures under an Annual Work Plan for 
rural road upgrading, rehabilitation and construction activities unless the 
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, 
confirming that no land acquisition is required for purposes of said 
activities; and  
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
(d)  
for payments made for expenditures under an Annual Work Plan, unless 
the Bank has determined that evidence of the Borrower’s compliance 
with the monitoring and performance indicators agreed between the 
Bank and the Borrower is satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II.A.3 of this Schedule 2. 
 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
June 1, 2021 
 
0.83 
December 1, 2021 
 
0.83 
June 1, 2022 
 
4.16 
December 1, 2022 
 
4.16 
June 1, 2023 
 
4.16 
December 1, 2023 
 
4.16 
June 1, 2024 
 
4.16 
December 1, 2024 
 
4.16 
June 1, 2025 
 
4.16 
December 1, 2025 
 
4.16 
June 1, 2026 
 
4.16 
December 1, 2026 
 
4.16 
June 1, 2027 
 
6.66 
December 1, 2027 
 
6.66 
June 1, 2028 
 
6.66 
December 1, 2028 
 
6.66 
June 1, 2029 
 
6.66 
December 1, 2029 
 
6.66 
June 1, 2030 
 
8.33 
December 1, 2030 
 
8.45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 16 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Allocation” means the portion of the Loan determined jointly between 
the Borrower and the Bank within the limit of the amount set forth in the Annual 
Work Plan for Part A of the Project. 
2. 
“Annual Report” means an annual report to be submitted to the Bank in 
accordance with Section II.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, describing, inter 
alia, the progress achieved in carrying out Part A of the Project in the Fiscal Year  
preceding said report in light of the monitoring indicators agreed between the 
Bank and the Borrower. 
3. 
“Annual Work Plan” means an annual work plan for the implementation of Part 
A of the Project for a given Fiscal Year, to be submitted to the Bank in 
accordance with Section II.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
5. 
“Basic Legislation” means the Guarantor’s Law (“Dahir”) No. 57-03, dated April 
21, 2004, pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is operating 
as a legally and financially autonomous public entity. 
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
7. 
“CNER” means the National Center for Road Studies and Research (Centre 
National d’Etudes et de Recherches Routières) within MET. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
9. 
“DPET” means the Provincial Offices of MET (Directions Provinciales de 
l’Equipement et des Transports). 
 
10. 
“DR” means the Directorate of Roads (Direction des Routes) within MET. 
 
11. 
“DRET” means the Regional Offices of MET (Directions Régionales de 
l’Equipement et des Transports). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
 
12. 
“EMP” means the Project Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared by the Borrower and DR and submitted to the Bank on  
February 13, 2006, included in the Project Implementation Plan, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior agreement, and including, 
inter alia, the environmental assessment procedures for the implementation of 
the Program in accordance with appropriate environmental standards and 
guidelines, said procedures governing, inter alia, the preparation of 
environmental assessments for construction activities to be carried out under the 
Project. 
 
13. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, starting January 1 and ending 
December 31 of each calendar year. 
 
14. 
“Framework Agreement” means the agreement dated August 22, 2005 between, 
respectively, the Borrower, MET and the Ministry of Economy and Finance of 
the Guarantor, relating to the construction of rural roads under the Program 
(“Convention Etat-CFR”), pursuant to which DR is designated as oversight entity 
and construction manager for all rural road activities to be carried out under the 
Program, which agreement shall not be amended without the Bank’s prior 
consultation. 
 
15. 
“Framework Letter” means the letter dated March 28, 2006, from the Guarantor, 
through MET, to the Bank setting forth or referring to the measures, objectives, 
actions and implementation procedures for the Program. 
 
16. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
17. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the land 
acquisition and resettlement policy framework, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared 
by the Borrower and DR and submitted to the Bank on February 13, 2006, 
included in the Project Implementation Plan, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the Bank’s prior agreement, and setting forth, inter alia, the 
requirements applying to land acquisition in connection with construction 
activities to be carried out under the Program.  
 
18. 
“Manual” means the manual prepared by DR for rural road design and appraisal 
under the Program. 
 
19. 
“MET” means the Guarantor’s Ministry of Equipment and Transport (Ministère 
de l’Equipement et du Transport) or any successor thereto. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 18 - 
 
20. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement for the Second Rural 
Roads Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated September 8, 2006 
(Loan No. 7378-MOR). 
 
21. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
22. 
“PMU” means the unit within DR, responsible for the implementation and 
coordination of the Program, established by MET’s decision dated  
September 8, 2005. 
 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
24. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 19, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
25. 
“Program” means the Guarantor’s road program covering the period 2005-2012, 
aiming at increasing the level of accessibility of rural population to all-weather 
roads by eighty percent (80%) by the year 2012. 
 
26. 
“Project Area” means the area in which Project activities will be carried out in 
the Guarantor’s regions of Tanger-Tetouan, Taza-Al-Hoceima-Taounate, Fez-
Boulmane, 
Meknes-Tafilalt, 
Tadla-Azilal, 
Doukkala-Abda, 
Rabat-Sale-
Zemmour-Zaër, Casablanca, Oriental, Marrakech-Tensift-El Haouz, Chaouia-
Ourdigha, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni Hsen, and Souss-Massa-Draâ, and the 
Guarantor’s province of Guelmin.   
 
27. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the project implementation plan prepared 
by the Borrower and DR, dated March 25, 2006, at all times satisfactory to the 
Bank, setting forth, inter alia: (i) the respective roles and responsibilities for the 
implementation of the Project; (ii) the accounting, financial reporting and 
auditing arrangements; (iii) the Procurement Plan; (iv) the monitoring and 
evaluation procedures, including the performance indicators agreed between the 
Bank and the Borrower for the Program; (v) the environmental assessment 
procedures; (vi) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework; (vii) 
the EMP; and (viii) the procedures manual for the administrative and financial 
management of the Program, as said Plan may be updated periodically by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
28. 
“Regional Framework Agreement” means a framework agreement entered into 
between MET and each of the Guarantor’s regions within the Project Area, with 
 
 
 
 
 
- 19 - 
 
a view to securing the latter’s, including the latter’s respective provinces and 
municipalities (“communes”), contribution to the financing of their respective 
local rural roads under the Program. 
   
29. 
“Specific Provincial Agreement” means a specific agreement entered into 
between MET and each of the Guarantor’s provinces within the Project Area, 
including the Guarantor’s municipalities (“communes”) concerned by the 
Program, under the relevant Regional Framework Agreement, with a view to 
securing said municipalities’ contribution to the financing and maintenance of 
their respective local rural roads under the Program, as well as contribution of 
right-of-way land for said roads. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
 
 
 
 
- 20 - 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
