CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7849-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Ningbo New Countryside Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 19, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated April 19, 2010, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: (a) a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into between Fenghua City and 
FCIC, satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of  
Section IV, paragraph 5 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and (b) a legal 
opinion has been received by the Bank confirming that said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto and 
is legally binding on said parties in accordance with its terms. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/  Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support Ningbo Municipality in the 
implementation of its New Countryside Development Program by improving rural 
wastewater management in selected villages and enhancing infrastructure and township 
management in small towns. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1. Rural Wastewater Management  
Carrying out a program of sub-project investments in wastewater collection and 
treatment in rural communities, using technologies that are appropriate and  
low cost. 
Part 2. Chunhu Town Infrastructure Development  
 
Carrying out the following infrastructure investments to facilitate the 
development of Chunhu Town in Fenghua City: 
(a) 
Construction of an access road (including a tunnel and bridges) to connect 
Chunhu Town, from its north-west corridor, to the downtown area of Fenghua 
City.  
(b) 
Construction of a water supply transmission pipeline to supply water from the 
existing Qiujiashan Water Supply Works to Chunhu Town and to the Hongsheng 
Haitang development zone; and rehabilitation and expansion of the existing 
Chunhu Town water distribution network. 
(c) 
Construction of a wastewater treatment plant in Chunhu Town and related 
wastewater collection network. 
Part 3: Capacity Building and Implementation Support 
 
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity for implementation of Part 1 of the Project through: 
provision of technical assistance to the project management offices at the 
municipal, district, county and city levels and to educate and raise awareness of 
villagers about Part 1 of the Project; and provision of relevant training, study 
tours and goods. 
 
6
(b) 
(i) Strengthening township development and management capacities in Chunhu 
Town through the provision of technical assistance for the development of a 
business promotion strategy and enhancement of town governance; and 
(ii) promoting energy-efficiency in Chunhu Town through the provision of 
technical assistance for: (A) the development of guidelines on energy efficient 
building design and renovation; (B) the demonstration of energy efficiency in a 
rural collective housing project; and (C) development of guidance on and pilots 
in sustainable energy actions.   
(c) 
Provision of technical assistance to assist: (i) Fenghua City government in the 
drafting of its twelfth five-year plan for the implementation of the new 
countryside development program; (ii) Chunhu Town government in updating 
the town’s development strategy and master plan; and (iii) selected village 
township governments in developing their spatial and sector development plans.  
(d) 
Provision of technical assistance to enhance FCIC’s capacity in project 
management and to assist FCIC in the dissemination of the results of activities 
carried out under Parts 1, 3(b) and 3(c) of the Project.   
 
Part 4. Resettlement  
 
Carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection 
with the implementation of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or an Approved 
Currency in a Currency Conversion made pursuant to Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (all determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal 
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall be 
recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of 
five (5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than February 15 
and August 15 each year, starting February 15, 2011.  
 
8
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank as part of 
the Project Report by not later than February 15 and August 15 each year, interim 
un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the preceding calendar 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
9
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding 
of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with 
the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that 
are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. 
Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding 
documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders 
between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified 
in detail in the bidding documents. 
 
10
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the 
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there 
shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient 
to 
protect 
the 
Borrower 
or 
the 
Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of 
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall 
specify the required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall 
not be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in 
the form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose 
bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to 
the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated 
cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition 
of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as 
originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
11
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country 
may be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and 
works if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; 
and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting 
the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or 
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank’s prior 
written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as 
provided under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  
a free and open access website and shall identify the name 
and offered price of the winning bidder, as well as the 
duration and summary scope of the awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have in place 
provisions for bidders to protest. 
(b) 
Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
12
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)        Quality-based Selection 
(c) 
Single-source Selection 
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
13
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Civil Works for the 
implementation of: 
 
(a) Part 1 of the Project 
19,165,000 
50% 
(b) Part 2 of the Project 
28,670,000 
50% 
(2) Goods 
80,000 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services, 
training and study tours  
1,960,000 
100% 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the 
Loan Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(5)  Premium for Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2016. 
14
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
Beginning 15 May 2015 through 15 
November 2039 
 
2% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
15
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
16
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
5. 
“Environment Management Framework” means the framework for environment 
impact assessment set out in Section 4 of the EIA Report for Ningbo New 
Countryside Development and Construction Project dated August 2009, and 
referred to in Section I, Part C, paragraph  2 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, which sets out the policies and procedures for environment 
assessment and preparation of environment mitigation plans in respect of Part 1 
Sub-projects, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
the implementation of said plans, as said framework may be revised from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank.  
6. 
“Environment Management Plans” means, collectively, the environment 
management plans contained in the following documents, which plans set out 
with respect to the Project, measures for the protection of the environment, as 
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation 
of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank: 
(a) 
EIA Report for Wastewater Treatment Plant and Associated Sewer 
Network in Chunhu Town, Fenghua City dated September 15, 2009;  
17
 
(b) 
EIA Report for Coastal Water Supply (the first phase) in Fenghua City 
dated September 15, 2009; 
(c) 
EIA Report for Chunhu Town Access Road Project dated September 15, 
2009; 
(d) 
EIA Report for Rural Wastewater Treatment Project (in pilot villages) of 
Ningbo New Countryside Development dated September 15, 2009; and  
(e) 
the environment management plans prepared pursuant to Section I,  
Part C, paragraph 2(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
“Environment Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” mean, individually, 
any of said Environment Management Plans. 
7. 
The acronym “FCIC” means Fenghua City Investment Company Limited, a 
state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter of April 15, 2008, and to Business License Number 330 283 000 002 570 
dated April 28, 2008, issued by Ningbo Municipal Industrial and Commercial 
Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
8. 
“Fenghua City” means the City of Fenghua, an administrative subdivision of 
Ningbo Municipality, and any successor thereto. 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
10. 
“Hengshan Reservoir Report” means the Preliminary Design Report on 
Hengshan Reservoir Reinforcement and Rehabilitation Project dated January 
2009 and prepared by Zhejiang Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey and 
Design Institute, which report sets out the remedial works to be carried out at 
said reservoir. 
11. 
“New Countryside Development Program” means the new countryside 
development program set out in document Number 2008-1 issued by the Ningbo 
Municipal Government on March 18, 2009. 
 
12. 
“Ningbo” means the Ningbo Municipality, and any successor thereto. 
13. 
The acronym “NRWT-PMO” means the Ningbo Municipality Rural Wastewater 
Treatment Project Management Office, established under the Ningbo Municipal 
Agriculture Bureau, and to be maintained in accordance with Section I, Part A, 
paragraph 1(a)(iii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
18
 
14. 
“Part 1 Community Participation Guidelines” means the Community 
Participation Guidelines dated June 2009 attached as Appendix II to the Ningbo 
Rural Development Project Social Assessment Report and referred to in Section 
IV, paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which manual sets out 
the framework for participation by communities in the preparation of proposals 
of investment sub-projects under Part 1 of the Project, the implementation of 
approved Part 1 Sub-projects and the operation and management of assets created 
under such Sub-projects. 
15. 
“Part 1 Implementation Framework” means the Framework for Implementation 
of the Rural Wastewater Management Component dated September 30, 2009, 
referred to in Section IV, paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,  
which framework includes principles and procedures for the selection, 
implementation and monitoring of sub-project investments under Part 1 of the 
Project. 
16. 
“Part 1 Implementation Manual” means, collectively, the Part 1 Implementation 
Framework, Part 1 Community Participation Guidelines and Part 1 Operation 
Manual and referred to in Section IV, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.  
17. 
“Part 1 Operation Manual” means the Operations Manual dated September 30, 
2009, referred to in Section IV, paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, which manual sets out the technical standards for the construction of 
wastewater management facilities (including, septic tanks systems, sewer design, 
internal plumbing and toilets) and the procedures for maintaining and financing 
the maintenance of such facilities.   
18. 
“Part 1 Project Participants” means, collectively: (a) Jiangbei District; 
(b) Yinzhou District; (c) Yuyao City; (d) Fenghua City; (e) Ninghai County; 
(f) Xiangshan County; (g) any other city, county or district selected by agreement 
among the Borrower, Ningbo and the Bank; and (h) the successors to such 
foregoing district, city and county.  “Part 1 Project Participant” means, 
individually, any of such Part 1 Project Participants.  
19. 
“Part 1 Sub-projects” means, collectively, the wastewater collection and 
treatment investments selected and approved for financing under this Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Part 1 Implementation Framework and the 
Part I Community Participation Guidelines and referred to in Section IV, 
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and “Part 1 Sub-
project” means, individually, any of such Part 1 Sub-projects. 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
19
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 30, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
22. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Ningbo Municipality, and 
any successor thereto. 
23. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the following plans which set 
out the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other 
assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons on account of the implementation of the Project, as well as monitoring 
and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank: 
(a) 
the Ningbo New Countryside Development Project Resettlement Action 
Plan dated June 2009, prepared on behalf of and adopted by Ningbo 
Municipality; and  
(b) 
the resettlement action plans to be prepared pursuant to Section I, Part C, 
paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and agreed 
to by the Bank. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means, individually, any such plan. 
24. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Ningbo Rural Development Project 
Resettlement Policy Framework dated June 2009, which framework sets out the 
policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of 
resettlement action plans whenever required during the implementation of the 
Project, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
25. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
Fenghua City and FCIC pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement and to 
Section IV, paragraph 5 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to said agreement. 
20
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
