 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7902-TU 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Second Access to Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
 
TÜRKİYE KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 6, 2010  
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7902-TU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated July 6, 2010, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and TÜRKİYE KALKINMA 
BANKASI A.Ş. (“Borrower” or “Kalkinma Bank”). 
   
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing Part A of the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV.A 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that Part A of the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Operations Manual. 
 
3 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that 
least one (1) Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
entered into between the Borrower and a PFI in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 5(b) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 
the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Türkiye Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. 
Necatibey Caddesi 
No. 98 
Bakanlıklar 06100  
Ankara,  
Turkey 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 (90-312) 230-2394 
 
 
 (90-312) 417-0146 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
  and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
4 
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TÜRKİYE KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. 
 
 
 
By /s/ Abdullah Celik 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
By /s/ Irfan Yasar 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to broaden and deepen Turkish small and medium 
enterprises’ access to medium- and long-term finance, thereby contributing to an 
expansion of productive activities and job creation.   
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Kalkinma Bank Credit Line 
 
The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Kalkinma Bank for the 
provision of financing (through Subsidiary Loans) to PFIs for onlending by the PFIs 
(through Sub-loans and Lease Financing) to SMEs to carry out Sub-projects. 
 
Part B:  Ziraat Bank Credit Line 
 
The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Ziraat Bank for the 
provision of financing (through Sub-loans) to SMEs to carry out Sub-projects. 
 
Part C:  Vakif Bank Credit Line 
 
The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Vakif Bank for the 
provision of financing (through Sub-loans) to SMEs to carry out Sub-projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Implementation 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, the PIU, and ensure that the PIU functions at all times in a 
manner and with staffing and budgetary resources necessary and appropriate for 
implementation of Part A of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Operations Manual, in form and content 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall duly perform all its obligations under the Operations 
Manual and shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Operations 
Manual, without the prior approval of the Bank.  
3. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, comply with 
the applicable banking regulations and prudential regulations of the Guarantor and 
confirm such compliance through semi-annual certifications by the Borrower’s 
management to the Bank and annual certifications by its external auditors.  
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out, and ensure that the PFIs and SMEs carry out, Part 
A of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
issued by the Bank on October 15, 2006 (with the modifications set forth in Section III of 
the Appendix to this Agreement), which are applicable to all IBRD loans and IDA credits 
and grants.  
5. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
 
  
(a) 
select Participating Banks and Leasing Companies as PFIs pursuant to 
criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Section I.B of this Schedule; 
 
 
(b) 
(i) 
relend to the PFIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) set forth in Section 
IV.A of this Schedule under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each such PFI, and which 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been approved by the 
Bank and shall include without limitation, the terms and 
conditions set forth in Section I.B of this Schedule and provided 
that the PFI continues to satisfy the eligibility criteria set out in 
paragraph 1 in Section I.B of this Schedule; 
 
7 
(ii) 
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on 
its part to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements all 
the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance; and 
(iii) 
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Guarantor 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
any such agreement or any provision thereof;   
(c) 
ensure that:  
(i) 
the amount of each Sub-loan or Lease Financing to any one SME 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000; and  
(ii) 
(A) the aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-loans and the 
aggregate amount of outstanding Lease Financing to any one 
SME from all PFIs; plus (B) the aggregate amount, if any, 
outstanding from such SME to Ziraat Bank and to Vakif Bank 
under sub-loans financed under the Project, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $5,000,000;  
(d) 
ensure that at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the aggregate of Sub-
loans and Lease Financings shall be made for Sub-projects financing investment projects 
located in the Priority Regions, or for Sub-projects financing working capital, the goods 
so financed are used in the Priority Regions; and 
(e) 
monitor the overall execution of Part A of the Project and the carrying 
out by the PFIs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements in 
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
Terms and Conditions of On-lending to PFIs  
 
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Section I.B shall apply for the 
purposes of paragraph 5(a) of Section I.A of this Schedule. 
PFI Eligibility Criteria 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall select Participating Banks and Leasing Companies as 
PFIs in accordance with the criteria and procedure set forth in the Operations Manual, 
including that: 
 
8 
(a) 
A Participating Bank may be selected only if it is duly established and 
operating in the territory of the Guarantor and in respect of which the Borrower shall 
have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed with the determination, that the 
Participating Bank: 
(i) 
has total assets during fiscal year 2009, or the fiscal year 
preceding the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
exceeding $500,000,000 equivalent on average;  
(ii) 
is in compliance with applicable banking regulations and 
prudential regulations of the Guarantor as confirmed in the semi-
annual financial reports submitted by the Participating Banks’ 
management and duly certified by the Participating Bank’s 
auditors at the end of each fiscal year of the Participating Banks; 
and 
(iii) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and 
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation 
and supervision of the procurement and environmental elements 
of Sub-projects. 
 
(b) 
A Leasing Company may be selected only if it is duly established and 
operating in the territory of the Guarantor, and in respect of which the Borrower shall 
have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed with the determination, that the Leasing 
Company: 
(i) 
has total Lease Financing receivables, during the last two fiscal 
years, exceeding $30,000,000 equivalent on average, and has 
new Lease Financing volume during the last two (2) fiscal years 
exceeding $20,000,000 equivalent on average;  
(ii) 
is in compliance with applicable leasing regulations of the 
Guarantor, as confirmed in the semi-annual financial reports 
submitted by the Lease Companies’ management and duly 
certified by the Lease Companies’ auditors at the end of each 
fiscal year of the Lease Companies; 
(iii) 
has been profitable for at least two (2) out of the last three (3) 
years of its operations; and 
(iv) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and 
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation 
and supervision of the procurement and environmental elements 
of Sub-projects. 
 
9 
Terms 
2. 
The principal amount to be relent of the proceeds of the Loan to a PFI under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall in the case of:  
(a) 
Participating Banks be the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the 
principal of all Sub-loans to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing for such Subsidiary Loan; and  
(b) 
Leasing Companies be the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the 
principal of all Lease Financing to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing for such Subsidiary Loan. 
3. 
Each Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate, at least, equal to the rate 
payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement plus the administrative costs of the 
Borrower and a credit risk margin. 
4. 
The right of a PFI to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan shall be: 
(a) suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to satisfy the eligibility criteria set 
forth in paragraph 1(a) or 1(b), as the case may be, of Section I.B this Schedule; and 
(b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) 
hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days. 
Conditions 
5. 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provision pursuant to which the 
PFI concerned undertakes to:  
 
(a) 
Carry out activities under the Project and conduct its operations and 
affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, including in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients 
of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, with qualified management and staff in 
adequate numbers, and in conformity with the investment and lending or financial leasing 
policies and procedures referred to in the Operations Manual, and provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose. 
(b) 
(i) 
make, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans or 
provide Lease Financing to SMEs on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Operations Manual, including, without limitation, 
the terms and conditions set forth in Section I.C of this Schedule; 
 
10 
(ii) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:  
(A) 
the amount of each Sub-loan or Lease Financing to any 
one SME shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000; 
and  
(B) 
(I) the aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-loans and 
the aggregate amount of outstanding Lease Financing to 
any one SME from all PFIs; plus (II) the aggregate 
amount, if any, outstanding from such SME to Ziraat 
Bank and to Vakif Bank under sub-loans financed under 
the Project, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$5,000,000; 
(iii) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan or Lease 
Financing in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank, comply 
with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; 
(iv) 
(A) not assign any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or 
Lease Financing; and (B) not amend, abrogate or waive any of 
the provisions in its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or 
Lease Financing, specifically, with respect to the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Operations Manual, unless the prior 
approval of the Borrower has been obtained; 
 
 
(v) 
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the 
carrying out by the SMEs of Sub-projects, in accordance with 
the Operations Manual and ensure that no Excluded Activities 
are included in any Sub-project; 
(vi) 
ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental 
review procedures set forth in the Operations Manual.  To that 
end, PFIs shall require each SME applying for a Sub-loan or 
Lease Financing to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Bank, 
showing that the Sub-project, in respect of which the application 
has been prepared, is in accordance with such procedures; 
(vii) 
ensure that for Sub-projects which require an environmental 
management plan, the SME shall carry out such plan in a timely 
manner, requiring such environmental management plan to be in 
compliance with: (A) environmental standards satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (B) the applicable laws and regulations of the 
Guarantor relating to health, safety and environmental 
 
11 
protection, and shall include adequate information on the 
carrying out of such environmental management plans in the 
progress reports referred to in subparagraph (c) (ii) of this 
paragraph; and   
(viii) 
ensure that: (A) goods, works and services (other than 
consultants’ services) to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of this Schedule; and (B) such goods, works and 
services (other than consultants’ services) shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project. 
(c) 
(i) 
exchange views with and furnish all such information to the 
Bank or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the 
Bank and the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its 
activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Project; 
(ii) 
prepare and submit to the Borrower quarterly reports on Sub-
loan and Lease Financing disbursements and repayments, and 
annual reports on the progress made in achieving the objectives 
outlined in the business plans submitted with the Sub-loan and 
Lease Financing applications; and 
(iii) 
promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
(d) 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition; and 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank such information concerning said records 
and accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.  
(e) 
use its best efforts to utilize all payments made by SMEs under the Sub-
loans and Lease Financings (to the extent payments are not required to meet said PFI’s 
payment and repayment obligations to the Borrower under its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement) to finance additional development projects to further the development of 
SMEs; and   
(f) 
assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan or Lease Financing, as the case 
may be. 
 
12 
C. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Lease Financing 
The provisions of this Section I.C shall be for the purposes of paragraph 5(b)(i) 
of Section I.B of this Schedule. 
 
1. 
(a)   
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-loan shall be made 
on terms and conditions, including those relating to the maturity, interest rate and other 
charges determined in accordance with the Participating Bank’s investment and lending 
policies and practices, provided, however, that: (i) the interest rate to be charged on the 
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, shall equal at 
least the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Subsidiary Loan pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of Section I.B of this Schedule plus the administrative costs and an 
appropriate credit risk margin; and (ii) the sub-loan shall have a minimum maturity 
period of two (2) years. 
 
(b)   
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Lease Financing shall be 
made on terms and conditions, including those relating to the duration and schedule of 
lease payments and other charges determined in accordance with the Leasing Company’s 
investment and financial leasing policies and practices, provided, however, that each 
lease payment in such schedule shall consist in part of an amortization component, which 
component shall be calculated as if: (A) the Lease Financing were a loan for the amount 
of the leased vehicles’ equipment’s and/or machinery’s value; (B) each lease payment 
were a payment of interest and principal under such loan; and (C) each amortization 
component were the principal amount included in each such payment of interest and 
principal.  The interest rate to be charged on the principal amount of the Lease Financing 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, shall equal at least the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Subsidiary Loan pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 
I.B of this Schedule plus the administrative costs and an appropriate credit risk margin. 
  
2. 
No expenditures for a Sub-project by a PFI shall be eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan:   
 
(a) 
unless the first two Sub-loans or Lease Financing shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one 
hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the PFI shall have received the 
application from any SME and any information required under paragraph 3 of this 
Section I.C in respect of such Sub-loan or Lease Financing, but in any case not earlier 
than on or before January 1, 2010; 
(b) 
unless the Sub-loan or Lease Financing by said PFI for such Sub-project 
shall have been, respectively, a free-limit Sub-loan or free-limit Lease Financing for 
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to 
the date on which the PFI shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3 of this Section I.C in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan or free limit Lease-
 
13 
Financing.  For the purposes of this Agreement: (i) a “free-limit Sub-loan” shall be a Sub-
loan, other than the first two Sub-loans by each PFI, and other than any Sub-loan to a 
SME in an amount exceeding the sum of $2,500,000 equivalent (when added to all other 
free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
to the same SME), the foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as 
determined by the Bank; and (ii) a “free-limit Lease Financing” shall be a Lease 
Financing, other than the first two Lease Financing by each PFI, and other than any Lease 
Financing to a SME in an amount exceeding the sum of $2,500,000 equivalent (when 
added to all other free-limit Lease Financing financed or proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to the same SME), the foregoing amount being subject to 
change from time to time as determined by the Bank;   
 
(c) 
in the event that the expenditures are for purchase of land or used 
equipment; and 
 
(d) 
in the event that the expenditures are for any of the Excluded Activities.     
3. 
When presenting a Sub-loan or Lease Financing (other than a free-limit Sub-loan 
or a free-limit Lease Financing) to the Bank for approval under paragraph 2 of this 
Section I.C, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to 
the Bank, together with:  
 
(a)  
an appraisal of the SME and the Sub-project, including a description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;  
 
(b) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Lease Financing, 
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or schedule of lease payments 
under the Lease Financing; and  
 
(c) 
evidence of compliance with the Operations Manual and specifically 
with the environmental review procedures set forth in the Operations Manual. 
4. 
(a) 
Sub-loans or Lease Financing shall be made to the SMEs which each 
shall have established, and maintained during the duration of its respective Sub-loan or 
Lease Financing, to the satisfaction of the Borrower that:  
 
(i) 
it has a private ownership; 
  
(ii) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, it 
will have a ratio of debt to equity (after receipt of the Sub-loan 
or Lease Financing) no greater than 80:20;  
 
(iii) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, it 
will not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its 
revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated cash flow for 
 
14 
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall 
be at least 1.2:1 times its estimated debt service requirements in 
such year on all its debt, including the debt to be incurred;  
 
 
 
(iv) 
it has submitted a cash flow statement in accordance with the 
Operations Manual; and 
 
(v) 
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying 
out of the Sub-project.   
 
 
(b) 
For purposes of this paragraph 4: 
 
(i) 
an SME shall be considered to have a private ownership when 
more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares or other equity 
interest thereof is held by persons or companies other than the 
Guarantor, any agency or subdivision thereof, or any local 
governmental authority, or entities controlled by the Guarantor 
or such agencies or subdivisions; 
 
 
 
(ii) 
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the SME;   
 
(iii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment, on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into; 
 
(iv) 
the term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of the SME not allocated 
to cover specific liabilities;  
 
(v) 
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments of, and interest and other charges on, 
debt; 
 
(vi) 
the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the 
SME not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in question, which the PFI, the Borrower and the SME 
accept as reasonable and as to which the PFI has notified the 
Borrower and SME of its acceptability, provided that no event 
has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse 
 
15 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of the 
SME; and 
 
(vii) 
whenever, for the purposes of this paragraph 4, it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, 
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made 
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable 
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the PFI. 
5. 
The Sub-loans or Lease Financings shall be made for Sub-projects which are 
each determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the Operations Manual: 
 
(a) 
to 
be 
technically 
feasible 
and 
economically, 
financially 
and 
commercially viable;  
 
(b) 
to be in compliance with the requirements pertaining to environmental 
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor and the 
environmental review procedures set forth in the Operations Manual.  To that end, the 
PFI shall require each SME applying for a Sub-loan or Lease Financing to furnish 
evidence satisfactory to the PFI showing that the Sub-project, in respect of which the 
application has been made, has been prepared in accordance such procedures, such 
evidence to include, inter alia, an environment management plan, as may be applicable; 
and 
(c) 
not to be supporting any of the Excluded Activities. 
6. 
Sub-loans and Lease Financing shall be made on terms whereby the PFI shall 
obtain, by written contract with the SME or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, the Borrower, and the Guarantor, 
including the right to: 
 
(a) 
require the SME to carry out and operate the facilities financed under the 
Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards, the provisions of Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and to maintain 
adequate records; 
 
(b) 
without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph (a), require the SME to carry out and operate the Sub-project with due regard 
to applicable social impact, ecological, environmental and pollution control standards and 
in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual; 
 
16 
 
(c) 
for Sub-projects which need an environmental management plan, require 
the SME to carry out such environmental management plan in a timely manner; 
(d) 
require: (i) that the goods, works and services (other than consultants’ 
services) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and Lease Financing shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule; and (ii) that 
such goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project; 
 
(e) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank and the 
Borrower, if the Bank or the Borrower shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, 
plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; 
 
(f) 
require that: (i) the SME shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent 
with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such 
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of 
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Lease Financing to the place of use 
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable 
by the SME to replace or repair such goods; 
 
(g) 
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the SME and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and 
 
(h) 
suspend or terminate the right of the SME to the use of the proceeds of 
the Sub-loan or the Lease Financing upon failure by such SME to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the PFI. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than November 30, 2014.  
 
 
17 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Statements and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).   All goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other 
than Consultants’ Services) 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.   
 
2. 
Established Private Sector or Commercial Practices. Contracts for goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or less per contract may be awarded in accordance with the established 
private sector or commercial practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank. 
 
 
18 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) all contracts 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; and (b) first contract 
procured on the basis of established private sector or commercial practices. All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as specified in the Disbursement Letter (including, the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Sub-loans and Lease 
Financing 
 
99,750,000 
 
100% of Sub-loans and 
Lease Financing  
 
(2) Front-end Fee 
 
 
250,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
 
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Collar Premium 
 
0 
 
Amounts payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
 
 
 
19 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawals shall be 
made from the Loan Account:  
  
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2010, for eligible 
expenditures under Category (1); or  
 
(b) 
under Category (1) unless the Sub-loan or the Lease Financing has been 
made in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Operations Manual and 
on terms and conditions referred to Section I.C of this Schedule 2. 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2014. 
 
 
20 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
 
Beginning October 15, 2020 
 
through October 15, 2034 
 
 
 
3.33% 
On April 15, 2035 
3.43% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
 
21 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
 
. 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Category A Sub-projects” means Sub-projects which are likely to have 
significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or 
unprecedented and require a full environmental impact assessment pursuant to 
the provisions of the Operations Manual. 
4. 
“Disbursement Letter” means the letter from the Bank dated the same date as this 
Agreement setting out the additional instructions referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and any revisions or supplements 
to said letter.    
5. 
“Excluded Activities” means, collectively:  
(a) 
Any of the activities listed, or activities that produce and/or use materials 
listed, in the Operations Manual and which are classified and referred to 
as part of the negative list in said manual.  
(b) 
An investment that is classified as a Category A Sub-project. 
(c) 
 An investment that entails land acquisition or involuntary resettlement. 
(d) 
An investment that involves the use or potential pollution of international 
waterways (or detailed design and engineering studies of such 
investment), as more specifically described in the Operations Manual. 
(e) 
An investment that involves the construction of a new dam or will rely 
on the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction. 
6. 
“Free-limit Lease Financing” means a Lease Financing proposed to be provided 
in an amount less than the threshold specified for prior Bank review under 
paragraph 2(b)(ii) of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for a Sub-
project which qualifies to be approved by the Borrower in the absence of such 
prior review pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph. 
 
23 
7. 
“Free-limit Sub-loan” means a Sub-loan proposed to be made in an amount less 
than the threshold specified for prior Bank review under paragraph 2(b)(i) of 
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for a Sub-project which qualifies to 
be approved by the Borrower in the absence of such prior review pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph.   
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of the 
Appendix.   
9. 
“International Financial Reporting Standards” or “IFRS” mean the accounting 
standards issued or endorsed by the International Accounting Standards Board. 
10. 
“Kalkinma Bank” and “Türkiye Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş.” mean a joint-stock 
company established pursuant to the statutes published in Trade Registry Gazette 
No. 23849 dated October 17, 1999 (Trade Registry No. 32345), which is 
responsible for implementation of Part A of the Project. 
11. 
“Lease Financing” means a financing provided or to be provided by a Leasing 
Company out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Category (1) of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, for purposes of financing the lease of (with the option to purchase) 
vehicles, equipment and/or machinery for purposes of carrying out a Sub-Project, 
involving the periodical payment to such Leasing Company of a lease payment 
consisting in part of an amortization component as set forth in paragraph 7 
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
12. 
“Leasing Company” means a private leasing company registered according to the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor and selected by the Borrower 
pursuant to criteria set forth in paragraph 1(b) Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
13. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual dated April 29, 2010, adopted by the 
Borrower on May 7, 2010, setting out the operation and administrative 
procedures for PFIs, in respect of the preparation, approval, processing, 
financing, implementation and supervision of Sub-loans and Lease Financings 
and includes the Environmental Assessment Framework, which sets out the 
policies and procedures for environmental screening of Sub-projects, for 
conducting environmental assessments and specifying requirements for 
environmental mitigation measures to be included in environmental management 
plans. 
14. 
“Participating Bank” means a private commercial bank registered according to 
the applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor and selected by the 
 
24 
Borrower pursuant to criteria set forth in paragraph 1(a) of Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
15. 
“Participating Financial Institution” and the acronym “PFI” mean any or each 
Participating Bank or Leasing Company. 
16. 
The acronym “PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit of the Borrower 
established within its Business Development Department and referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
17. 
“Priority Regions” means collectively: (a) the provinces of Adıyaman, Batman, 
Diyarbakır, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa, and Şırnak in the Southeast Anatolia 
Region; (b) the provinces of Ağrı, Ardahan, Bingöl, Bitlis, Elazığ, Erzincan, 
Erzurum, Hakkari, Iğdır, Kars, Malatya, Muş, Tunceli, and Van in the East 
Anatolia Region; (c) the provinces of Sivas, Aksaray, Çankırı, Nevşehir, Niğde 
Kırşehir, Kırıkkale, Karaman and Yozgat in the Central Anatolia Region; (d) the 
provinces of Bartın, Çorum, Amasya, Kastamonu, Karabük, Samsun, Sinop, 
Ordu, Giresun, Rize, Trabzon, Bayburt, Artvin, Gümüshane, Zonguldak and 
Tokat in the Black Sea Region; (e) the provinces of Kahramanmaraş, and 
Osmaniye in Mediterranean Region; and (f) the districts of  Bozcaada and 
Gökçeada in province of Marmara in the Marmara Region. 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
19. 
The acronym “SME” means a small or medium enterprise that has less than 
$20,000,000 in sales, employs fewer than 250 employees and satisfies the 
appropriate criteria as set forth in paragraph 4 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to which the PFI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or a 
Lease Financing. 
20. 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating Bank, 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the 
table set forth in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of 
financing all or a portion of the expenditures incurred by a SME for goods, works 
and services (other than consultants’ services) under a Sub-Project. 
21. 
“Sub-project” means a specific project, selected in accordance with paragraph 5 
of Section I.C. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried 
out by a SME, in whole or in part through the utilization of the proceeds of a 
Sub-loan or a Lease Financing.  
22. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means an agreement entered or to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a PFI pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section I.A of 
 
25 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.  
23. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
24. 
“Vakif Bank” and “T. Vakiflar Bankasi T.A.O.” means a joint stock company 
established pursuant to the statutes published in Trade Registry Gazette No. 8608 
dated January 15, 1954 (Trade Registry No. 6219), which is responsible for 
implementation of Part C of the Project.    
25. 
“Ziraat Bank” and “T.C. Ziraat Bankasi A.Ş.” means a joint stock company 
established pursuant to the statutes published in Trade Registry Gazette No. 5251 
dated March 3, 2001 (Trade Registry No. 4603), which is responsible for 
implementation of Part B of the Project. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier 
that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” set forth in the Appendix is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
26 
 “ ‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.”  
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, which are applicable to all IBRD 
loans and IDA credits and grants, are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
Footnotes: 
 
27 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
 
