CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7950-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Programmatic Environmental Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERÚ 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 14, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 14, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF PERÚ 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy five million Dollars 
($75,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
(a) 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness, or any person 
designated in writing, is designated as the representative of the Borrower 
for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article II of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
2
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
3
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out 
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on February 6, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the 
Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, represent the 
Borrower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are considered of an 
administrative and non-financial nature.  The signing by such Director of an 
amendment shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such 
amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.  
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile:   
(511) 626-9921 
 
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Lima, Perú, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERÚ 
 
By /s/ Mercedes R. Araoz Fernandez 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
A. 
Environmental Governance 
 
Strengthening the Institutional and Legal Framework for Biodiversity 
Conservation and National Protected Areas Management 
The Borrower has: (a) adopted a master plan with three action plans (Plan de 
Acción para el Fortalecimiento de las Capacidades para Gestionar las Areas 
Naturales Protegidas; Plan de Acción para el Involucramiento y el 
Empoderamiento de las Poblaciones Locales en la Gestión de las Areas 
Naturales Protegidas; Plan de Acción para el Fortalecimiento de la Base 
Financiera de la Areas Naturales Protegidas), all conducive to the financial 
sustainability of the Borrower’s system of natural protected areas (SINANPE), as 
evidenced through the issuance of SERNANP Presidential Resolution No. 052-
2010-SERNANP which enacted such master plan, dated March 24, 2010 and 
published on the website: www.sernanp.gob.pe; and (b) adopted mechanisms to 
promote private sector financing and management in favor of four newly 
established Private Conservation Areas, as evidenced through the Borrower’s 
Ministerial Resolutions No. 072-2010-MINAM; No. 073-2010-MINAM; No. 
074-2010-MINAM; and No. 075-2010-MINAM, all dated May 6, 2010 as 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on May 7, 2010. 
 
B. 
Mainstreaming Principles of Sustainable Development in Key Sectors 
 
1. 
Mining Sector 
 
The Borrower has developed technical guidelines for the adequate remediation 
(including maintenance, monitoring and follow-up activities) of Mining 
Environmental Legacies, as evidenced through the issuance of the Borrower’s 
Directorate Resolution No. 124-2010-MEM/AAM, dated April 15, 2010, as 
published on the website: www.mem.gob.pe.
2. 
Urban Transport Sector 
 
The Borrower has: (a) adopted, as a follow-up action to the Borrower’s Supreme 
Decree No. 061-2009-EM, dated September 4, 2009, as published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette dated September 5, 2009, an investment plan for the 
modernization of PETROPERU’s refinery in Talara that reduces the sulfur 
6
content of the diesel fuel as evidenced through PETROPERU letter (Oficio) No. 
GAPP-038-2010, dated March 29, 2010; and (b) implemented an effective 
inspection and maintenance system in Lima and three additional cities through 
the introduction of an information and communication system in the Borrower’s 
territory, as evidenced through the issuance of the Borrower’s Directorate 
Resolution No. 3041-2009-MTC/15, dated September 23, 2009, as published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on October 25, 2009, and the 
issuance of the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 015-2010-MTC, dated March 
16, 2010, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano)
on
March 17, 2010, which requires the mandatory use of filming equipment to 
ensure proper identification of inspected vehicles. 
 
3. 
Fisheries Sector 
 
The Borrower has: (a) established anchoveta fishing quota allocations for the 
first fishing season in 2010 for the Borrower’s north-central region, as evidenced 
through the issuance of the Borrower’s Ministerial Resolution No. 100-2010-
PRODUCE, dated April 16, 2010, as published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (El Peruano) on April 18, 2010; and (b) enacted measures required for 
the monitoring and enforcement of said quota system, as evidenced through the 
issuance of the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 002-2010-PRODUCE dated 
February 24, 2010, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano)
on February 25, 2010. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan Tranche  
Allocated 
(expressed in US Dollars)
(1)  Single Withdrawal 
 
Tranche 
 
75,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
75,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  
7
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with 
the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
G. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on June 15, 2028. 
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
10 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Mining Environmental Legacies” means Pasivos Ambientales Mineros, as 
established and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 28271, dated July 6, 
2004 and the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 059-2005-EM, dated December 7, 
2005, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on
December 18, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“PETROPERU” means the Borrower’s public oil company, as established and 
operating under the Borrower’s Decree-Law No.17753, dated July 24, 1969, and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on July 25, 1969, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; or its successor or successors thereto. 
 
5. 
“Private Conservation Areas” means Areas de Conservación Privadas, the 
Borrower’s private conservation areas, complementary to SINANPE, as 
established and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 26834, dated June 30, 
1997, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on July 4, 
1997, as amended to the date of this Agreement.  
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated June 25, 2010, from the Borrower to the Bank, 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
11 
 
7. 
“SERNANP” means Servicio Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas por el 
Estado, the Borrower’s national service for natural protected areas, as established 
and operating under the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 1013, dated May 13, 
2008, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on May 14, 
2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement; or its successor or successors 
thereto. 
 
8. 
“SINANPE” means Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas por el 
Estado, the Borrower’s system of natural protected areas, as established and 
operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 26834, dated June 17, 1997, and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on July 4, 1997, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; or its successor or successors thereto. 
 
9. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
12 
 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
13 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
