 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7938-CN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Huai River Basin Flood Management and 
Drainage Improvement Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated November 3, 2010 
  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated November 3, 2010, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
 
- 2 - 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entities in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
  
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
 
Sanlihe 
 
 
Xicheng District 
 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/  Zhang Wencai 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
- 4 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objectives of the Project are to provide better and more secure protection 
against floods and water logging, increase farmland productivity, and reduce property 
losses in predominantly rural areas in the Huai River basin in the provinces of Jiangsu, 
Shandong, Anhui and Henan of the Borrower. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Flood Protection and Drainage Improvement 
 
1. 
Carrying out of flood protection and drainage improvement works in the Project 
 
Area including: (a) strengthening of dikes; (b) improving waterways through, 
 
inter alia, river dredging, drainage channel excavation, and river bank 
 
reinforcement and stabilization; and (c) construction, rehabilitation, replacement 
 
and expansion of flood control works, including pumping stations, cross-dike 
 
structures, sluice gates and bridges.  
 
2. 
Enhancing community involvement in flood protection and drainage 
improvement works through: (a) establishment and expansion of Farmer 
Drainage and Irrigation Associations in the Project Area; and (b) carrying out 
drainage and minor irrigation improvement works in the Project Area.  
 
3. 
Carrying out of a program for mitigating the adverse environmental impacts and 
enhancing positive impacts from the implementation of this Part A of the Project. 
 
Part B: Disaster Assessment and Support System 
 
1. 
Carrying out of a program to enhance disaster assessment and support systems 
including: (a) upgrading coverage and facilities for information and data 
collection on river floods and drainage; (b) improving speed of disaster 
information and data collection, transmission and processing; (c) establishing a 
disaster assessment center in Hefei, Anhui Province to facilitate the participatory 
decision making process; (d) improving the level of accuracy of flood and water-
logging damage assessment process; and (e) formulating innovative measures on 
water-logging mitigation. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of a program for mitigating the adverse environmental impacts and 
enhancing positive impacts from the implementation of this Part B of the Project. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening 
 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Implementing Entities in critical areas 
 
related to the Project including: (a) dike maintenance; (b) design and 
 
construction; (c) modern construction technologies; (d) data collection and 
 
decision support systems for flood forecasting systems, emergency preparedness 
 
plans and river modeling; (e) financial and physical sustainability; and (f) Project 
 
implementation and management of completed works.  
 
2. 
Strengthening the institutional and physical capacities of the Project 
 
Implementing Entities for the efficient operation and maintenance of flood 
 
control and drainage improvement facilities in the Project Area.  
 
Part D:Resettlement Action Plan Implementation  
 
1. 
Carrying out of a program for the resettlement and rehabilitation of people 
 
affected by the implementation of the Project.  
 
Part E: Project Management 
 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Implementing Entities in Project 
management through, inter alia: (a) provision of consultant services for the 
production of engineering design, preparation and processing of procurement 
documents and carrying out construction supervision; (b) installation and 
operation of a procurement and financial management information system; (c) 
establishment of monitoring and evaluation systems and enhancing capacity for 
carrying out monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and (d) carrying out 
quality assurance measures.  
 
 
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements  
 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entities the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Categories for each such 
Entity as set forth in the table in Section IV of this Schedule on the following 
principal terms: 
 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other 
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account).  
 
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty five (25) years 
inclusive of a grace period of eight (8) years: (a) the principal amount so 
made available; (b) a pro rata amount of the fee paid pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this Agreement; and (c) the amount of the Premium paid 
pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project: 
 
(a) 
the Central Project Leading Group within MWR, for purposes of 
providing overall policy support and ensuring coordination among all 
relevant agencies for the implementation of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the Central Project Coordination Office within MWR, with composition, 
powers, functions, funds, staffing and other resources satisfactory to the 
Bank and as shall be required to enable the CPCO to liaise and carry out 
coordination of Project implementation among relevant agencies at the 
central level and among relevant departments within the MWR;   
 
 
 
- 7 - 
(c) 
the Central Project Management Office within HRBC with such 
composition, powers, functions, funds, staffing and other resources 
satisfactory to the Bank and as shall be required to enable the CPMO to 
coordinate, manage and evaluate the overall implementation of the 
Project, including providing technical and policy assistance to the Project 
Implementing Entities; and 
 
(d)  
the Central Expert Group  with terms of reference, satisfactory to the 
Bank,  in order to provide technical support to the CPMO. 
 
2.  
The Borrower shall cause CPMO: (a) based on the  annual implementation plans 
furnished to it by the Project Implementing Entities pursuant to Section I.11 of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to prepare a consolidated annual 
implementation plan for the Project and furnish it to the Bank no later than 
December 31 in each year together with the plans received from the Project 
Implementing Entities; and (b) thereafter to ensure prompt implementation of 
said annual implementation plans finalized taking into account comments made 
by the Bank. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Inconsistency 
 
In the event of any inconsistency between the Project Implementation Plan, the 
Financial Management Manual, the Policy Framework for Resettlement and 
Land Acquisition, the RAPs, the EMPs, the Dam Safety Plans, and this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, or cause MWR to monitor and 
evaluate, the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators set forth in the Annex to the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank as part of 
the Progress Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal 
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
 
C. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented by the Project 
Provinces and HRBC, as the case may be, in accordance with the EMPs, the 
RAPs, the Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition, and the 
Dam Safety Plans, in each case in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this Section, the 
Borrower shall,  ensure that the Project Provinces and HRBC, as the case maybe, 
implement the measures finalized pursuant to paragraph I.7 of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 and 4 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB):  Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 3 below, works costing less than $20,000,000 equivalent per contract 
and goods costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding 
procedures, subject to the additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below.  
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for procuring goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines. 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except contracts for 
works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each or goods 
contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to 
obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be 
given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper 
and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission. 
 
 
- 10 - 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the Project Implementing Entities in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Borrower, or the Project Implementing Entities, as the 
case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (a) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (b) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
 
- 11 - 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods and civil works if they 
can establish that they: (a) are legally and financially autonomous;  
(b) operate under commercial law; and (c) are not a dependent agency of 
the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take 
place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national press or provincial press (as provided under 3(i) above) or 
official gazette or a free and open access website and shall identify:  
(a) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read 
out at bid opening; (c) the name and evaluated price of each evaluated 
bid; (d) the name of bidders whose bids were rejected and the reasons for 
their rejection; and (e) the name and offered price of the winning bidder, 
as well as the duration and summary scope of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
The Project Implementing Entities shall have in place provisions for 
bidders to protest. 
 
4. 
Shopping.  Works costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract and goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Individual Consultants 
(d)  
Single Source Selection 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract in excess of the equivalent of $500,000 for goods and the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 for works; (b) the first NCB contract procured for goods and for 
works regardless of contract value; (c) each contract for consultants’ services in 
excess of the equivalent of $100,000 for firms and in excess of the equivalent of 
$50,000 for individuals; and (d) each contract awarded under Single Source 
Selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in 
accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General Conditions; (b) any premium on 
the Interest Rate Cap or the Interest Rate Collar in accordance with  
Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions; and (c) the other Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of taxes) 
1. Henan 
 
 
(a) Works 
11,891,300 
54% 
(b) Goods 
2,679,200 
100% 
(c) Consultant Services and Training 
392,000 
100% 
2. Anhui 
 
 
(a) Works 
61,617,700 
68% 
(b) Goods 
12,099,200 
100% 
(c) Consultant Services and Training 
1,095,700 
100% 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
3. Jiangsu 
 
 
(a) Works 
88,100,000 
81% 
(b) Goods 
1,129,400 
100% 
(c) Consultant Services and Training 
545,600 
100% 
4. Shandong 
 
 
(a) Works 
8,920,100 
43% 
(b) Goods 
1,498,000 
100% 
(c) Consultant Services and Training 
554,300 
100% 
5. Huai River Basin Commission 
 
 
(a) Works 
6,961,000 
91% 
(b) Goods 
1,580,000 
100% 
(c) Consultant Services and Training 
436,500 
100% 
6. Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
7. Premium on Interest Rate Cap  
    or Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
Total 
200,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
Each May 15 and November 15, 
Beginning November 15, 2018 through 
November 15, 2034 
2.94% 
On May 15, 2035 
2.98% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
 
 
- 15 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
 
- 16 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anhui” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui, and any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in Section III of this 
Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Central Expert Group” and the acronym “CEG” mean the group established by 
HRBC (as hereinafter defined) within the CPMO (as hereinafter defined), and to be 
maintained according to the provisions of paragraph B.1(d) of Section I of  
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Central Project Coordination Office” and the acronym “CPCO” mean the office 
established within MWR (as hereinafter defined), and to be maintained according to 
the provisions of paragraph B.1(b) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Central Project Leading Group” and the acronym “CPLG” mean the office 
established within MWR, and to be maintained according to the provisions of 
paragraph B.1(a) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Central Project Management Office” and the acronym “CPMO” mean the office 
established by HRBC (as hereinafter defined), and to be maintained according to the 
provisions of paragraph B.1(c) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
9. 
“Dam Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan” means, in respect of 
any Upstream Dam (as hereinafter defined), the Plan of the relevant Project Province 
in which said Dam is located, prepared pursuant to paragraph 10(c) of Section I of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and reviewed by the relevant Dam Safety 
Panel (as hereinafter defined) of said Province, setting out measures, including 
organization, staffing levels, procedures, equipment, and supervision qualifications, 
for supervision and quality assurance of the construction or rehabilitation of said 
Dam, as said Plan may be modified from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such 
Plan. 
 
 
- 17 - 
10. 
“Dam Emergency Preparedness Plan” means, in respect of any Upstream Dam, the 
Plan of the relevant Project Province in which said Dam is located, prepared pursuant 
to paragraph 10(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, reviewed 
by the relevant Dam Safety Panel of said Province, detailing, inter alia, the roles of 
responsible parties during possible emergency situations when facility failure is 
considered imminent or when expected operational flow release threatens 
downstream life, property, or economic operations that depend on river flow levels 
relating to the relevant Upstream Dam and setting out measures, including clear 
statements on the responsibility for operations decision making and related 
emergency communications, maps outlining inundation levels for various emergency 
conditions, flood warning system characteristics, and procedures for evaluating 
threatened areas and mobilizing emergency forces and equipment, as said Plan may 
be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such 
term includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan. 
 
11. 
“Dam Instrumentation Plan” means, in respect of any Upstream Dam, the Plan of the 
relevant Project Province in which said Dam is located, prepared pursuant to 
paragraph 10(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, reviewed by 
the relevant Dam Safety Panel of said Province, setting out measures for the 
installation of instruments to monitor and record the behavior of and the hydro-
meteorological, structural, and seismic factors relating to the relevant Upstream Dam 
as said Plan may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of 
the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan. 
 
12. 
“Dam Operation and Maintenance Plan” means, in respect of any Upstream Dam, the 
Plan of the relevant Project Province in which said Dam is located, prepared pursuant 
to paragraph 10(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, reviewed 
by the relevant Dam Safety Panel of said Province, setting out measures, including 
organizational structure, staffing, technical expertise, and training required, 
equipment and facilities needed, procedures, and funding arrangements, including 
long-term maintenance and safety inspections, for the operation and maintenance of 
the relevant Upstream Dam, as said Plan may be modified from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or 
annexes to such Plan. 
 
13. 
“Dam Safety Panel” means each panel appointed by Anhui Province, Henan 
Province, Jiangsu Province and Shandong Province on October 15, 2008,  
November 11, 2007, December 5, 2007, and November 15, 2008 respectively, 
consisting of three experts, except for the Panel appointed by Jiangsu that consists of 
two experts, for the purposes, inter alia, of reviewing the safety aspects of each 
Upstream Dam (as hereinafter defined) located in said Provinces, and to be 
maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 9 of Section I of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement. 
 
 
 
- 18 - 
14. 
“Dam Safety Plans” means, collectively, for any Upstream Dam: (i) the Dam 
Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan; (ii) the Dam Emergency 
Preparedness Plan; (iii) the Dam Instrumentation Plan; (iv) the Dam Operation and 
Maintenance Plan; (v) the action plan for carrying out periodic safety inspection 
prepared pursuant to paragraph 10(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement; and (vi) the annual dam safety action plan prepared pursuant to 
paragraph 10(d) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, 
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: 
(i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter;  
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, 
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and “Displaced 
Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
16. 
“Environmental Management Plans” and the acronym “EMPs” mean collectively:  
(a) each plan of Anhui, Henan, Jiangsu and Shandong (as certain of these terms are 
hereinafter defined) dated February 9, 2010, and adopted by them, and the 
consolidated Plan dated February 9, 2010 prepared for the Project by HRBC (as 
hereinafter defined) and adopted by it and MWR (as hereinafter defined), each such 
plan setting forth, inter alia, the assessment of environmental impacts of the Project, 
including 
impacts 
on 
natural 
habitats 
and 
culturally 
significant 
sites,  
recommendations for mitigation of adverse impacts and enhancement of positive 
impacts based on such assessment, and the guidelines for environmental screening 
and monitoring of Project implementation; and (b) the annual EMP action plan to be 
prepared by each Project Implementing Entity pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section I of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as each such plan may be amended from time 
to time with the prior written approval of the Bank; and such term includes all 
attachments and annexes supplemental to each such Plan.  
  
17. 
“Expert Groups” and the acronym “EGs” mean provincial expert groups established 
by the Project Provinces, and to be maintained according to the provisions of 
paragraph 1(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
18. 
“FDIA” means a Farmer Drainage and Irrigation Association established in the 
Project Area by the Project Provinces to enhance community participation in the 
operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems. 
 
19. 
“FDIA Extension Plan” means the plan dated February 9, 2010 duly adopted by each 
of the Project Provinces for extending the establishment and operation of FDIAs in 
the Project Area, as each such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written approval of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes 
supplemental to each such Plan. 
 
 
- 19 - 
20. 
“Financial Management Manuals” means collectively each Manual of Anhui, Henan, 
Jiangsu, Shandong and HRBC dated February 9, 2010 and  adopted by each of them, 
each such Manual setting out, inter alia, the policies and procedures for establishing 
and maintaining a financial management system to be implemented by the respective 
Project Implementing Entity in the carrying out of the Project, as said Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank; and such 
term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to each said Manual. 
 
21. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
22. 
“Henan” means the Borrower’s Province of Henan, and any successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“HRBC” means Huai River Basin Commission of the Borrower established within 
MWR, and any successor thereto. 
 
24. 
“Jiangsu” means the Borrower’s Province of Jiangsu, and any successor thereto. 
 
25. 
“MWR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water Resources, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
26. 
“Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition” means the policy 
framework, dated April 29, 2010, adopted by the Project Implementing Entities, 
which sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of 
resettlement action plans during the implementation of the Project, as said policy 
framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said 
Policy Framework. 
  
27. 
“Procurement and Financial Management Information System” means the system, 
acceptable to the Bank, to be installed for the Project by the Project Implementing 
Entities to improve internal controls, monitor the entire procurement process and 
financial transactions, identify and cross-checks errors, and improve external reviews 
and auditing, and to be applied in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B.4 of 
Section II of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 
2006 and May 2010. 
 
29. 
“Procurement Plans” means collectively each Plan of Anhui, Henan, Jiangsu, 
Shandong and HRBC dated May 5, 2010, for the Project, adopted by each of them, 
 
 
- 20 - 
each such Plan being referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
 
30. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Borrower’s 
Provinces of Anhui, Henan, Jiangsu, and Shandong, and HRBC, and any successor 
thereto, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the prior written approval of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
 
31. 
“Project Area” means the basin area of the Huai River comprised in the Anhui 
Province, Henan Province, Jiangsu Province and Shandong Province of the 
Borrower. 
 
32. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Plan dated February 10, 2010 adopted by 
the Project Implementing Entities setting out the detailed arrangements and 
procedures for implementing and supervising the Project, and to be carried out by the 
Project Implementing Entities in the implementation of the Project, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank; and such 
term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said Manual.  
 
33. 
“Project Implementing Entities” means Anhui Province, Henan Province, Jiangsu 
Province, Shandong Province and HRBC. 
 
34. 
“Project Leading Groups” and the acronym “PLGs” mean project leading groups 
established by the Project Provinces and to be maintained according to the provisions 
of paragraph 1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
35. 
“Project Management Offices” and the acronym “PMOs” mean the office established 
within HRBC and the office established by the provincial water resources bureaus of 
each Project Province, and to be maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 
1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
36. 
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Anhui, Henan, Jiangsu and Shandong, and 
“Project Province” means any one of them individually as the context may require. 
 
37. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” and the acronym “RAPs” mean collectively: (a) each 
plan of Anhui, Henan, Jiangsu and Shandong dated February 9, 2010, respectively 
prepared with respect to the implementation of the Project until December 31, 2011 
duly adopted by the Project Provinces; and (b) the annual RAP of each Province to be 
prepared in accordance with the Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land 
Acquisition, for each subsequent calendar year during the implementation of the 
Project, each of which Plan sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on 
account of the execution of the Project, as well as reporting and monitoring 
 
 
- 21 - 
arrangements  to ensure compliance with said plan, as each such plan may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank;  and such 
term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to each such Plan.  
 
38. 
“Shandong” means the Borrower’s Province of Shandong, and any successor thereto. 
 
39. 
“Training” means the costs of training under the Project, based on annual work plans 
and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and 
study tours, along with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, 
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of 
training materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and 
implementation. 
 
40. 
“Upstream Dam” means an existing dam or a dam under construction or to be 
constructed and located in an area in Anhui, Henan, Jiangsu or Shandong lying 
upstream of any facilities to be constructed or rehabilitated under the Project and 
whose failure may cause damage to the safe operation of said facilities, each such 
Dam to be reviewed by the Dam Safety Panel in order to ensure its operational 
safety, including the preparation and implementation for any such Dam of required 
Dam Safety Plans. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1.        Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... (l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or 
in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Bank 
or the Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged 
in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of 
the proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a 
declaration by another financier that the Borrower (other than the Member Country) 
or the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financings 
made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
 
- 22 - 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is the Appendix modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as herein 
defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank, 
on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in the Conversion 
Guidelines.” 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed by 
the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or 
entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the 
individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the 
use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn14) or an individual or entity, 
including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible 
publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or 
otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the 
preparation or implementation of the project or any other project financed, in whole 
or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank determines (fn15) that such Borrower, 
individual or entity has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or 
obstructive practices in connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another 
financier with which the Bank has entered into an agreement for the mutual 
enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person or entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in 
the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such 
financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the 
individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices 
in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
 
 
 
- 23 - 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies 
and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary 
suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by 
another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of any 
of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and agencies 
that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate 
under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose of 
making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of 
sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol 
outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, and 
explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be 
made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
