 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8036-CN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Anhui Shaying River Channel Improvement Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated June 3, 2011  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 3, 2011, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
(US$100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such  
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable 
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions.  
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 2 - 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity (Anhui) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
  
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
 
Sanlihe 
 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Zhang Wencai 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the increased cargo throughput of 
the Shaying River in Anhui Province through infrastructure improvements and capacity 
building. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Navigation Infrastructure and Facilities 
 
1. 
River Channelization and Dredging: Improvement of the about 205.6 km long 
river channel to the standard of Class IV by dredging and bank cusp-cutting. 
 
2. 
River Bank Strengthening and Protection:  Extension and strengthening of the 
existing river bank protection, and carrying out of new bank protection works in 
the river sections with deep and narrow channel, for a total length of about 43.87 
km. 
 
3. 
Navigation Signals:  Installation of about 213 navigation signals at key sections 
and locations. 
 
4. 
Service Facilities: Provision of two service areas, six public anchorage areas, 
communication and monitoring system, and other navigation aid facilities. 
 
Part B:  Reconstruction and Relocation of Existing Infrastructure and Facilities  
 
1. 
Reconstruction of four existing bridges to allow for sufficient clearance for 
navigation, including the Yumin Bridge and the Shaying Bridge in Jieshou City, 
and the Ying River Bridges #1 and #2 in Taihe County; as well as reinforcing 
and anti-collision works to the navigable opening under other existing bridges 
along the river channel. 
 
2. 
   Relocation or elevating of existing cross-river power cables and telephone lines. 
 
Part C:  Erection of Waterway Transport Management Systems  
 
1. 
Provision and installation of the plants and equipment which are needed for 
building two management systems: (a) Shaying River Waterway Transport 
Management and Emergency Service System; and (b) Comprehensive Ship Lock 
Management System, to be developed by the technical studies under Part D.   
 
- 5 - 
Part D:  Technical Assistance  
 
1. 
Carrying out of technical studies on: (a) Shaying River Waterway Transport 
Management and Emergency Service System; and (b) Comprehensive Ship Lock 
Management System.  
 
2. 
Provision of well-tailored training programs to build the institutional capacity of 
the inland water transport sector to enable sustainable inland water development 
in Anhui Province. 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Onlending Arrangements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity 
(Anhui), the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the 
Project Implementing Entity (Anhui), under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, which shall include the following:  
 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other 
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.    
 
 
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium 
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General 
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Anhui) to: 
(a) manage, operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan 
made available to it pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with 
arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required 
actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals as may be 
necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the 
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity 
(Anhui)  to comply with its undertakings under this Agreement and the Project 
Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to the 
Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records, 
including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank 
from time to time. 
 
- 7 - 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
- 8 - 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower  or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).  
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 
below, works costing less than $20,000,000 equivalent per contract and goods 
costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded under National Competitive Bidding procedures, subject to the 
additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below. 
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for procuring goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except works contracts 
that are estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent but less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each or goods contracts that are estimated to cost 
less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or 
bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, 
a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date 
- 9 - 
of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for submission of 
bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the 
deadline for such submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the employer in case of breach of contract by the contractor, 
and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such security. In place of a bid security, the bidding documents may 
require that a bidder submit with its bid a signed declaration that, if the 
bidder withdraws its bid during the bid validity period or, if awarded the 
contract, the bidder fails to sign the contract or submit any required 
performance security before the deadline required in the bidding 
documents, the bidder will be suspended for a period of two (2) years 
from being awarded any contract with the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity (Anhui), including any of their departments, 
agencies or administrative units. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Borrower or Project Implementing Entity (Anhui). 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
- 10 - 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods if they can establish that 
they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate under 
commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency 
conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take 
place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national press or provincial press or official gazette or a free and open 
access website and shall identify the name and offered price of the 
winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope of the 
awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
The Project Implementing Entity (Anhui) shall have in place provisions 
for bidders to protest. 
 
4. 
Other Method of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the method of procurement, other than International or National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such method may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
- 11 - 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
 
3. 
The short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract equivalent to $500,000 or more for goods and $5,000,000 or more for 
works, all direct contracting, and the first contract for works and goods regardless 
of contract value; and (b) each contract for consultants’ services in excess of 
$100,000 or equivalent for firms, or $20,000 or equivalent for individual 
consultants, all single-source selection of consultants, and the first contract for 
consultants’ services regardless of contract value. All other contracts shall be 
subject to ex-post review by the Bank.  
  
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
terms-of-reference for all consultant contracts, regardless of value, shall be 
subject to Prior Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
- 12 - 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Allocated  
Amount 
(expressed in US$) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of taxes) 
(1)  Civil works under Part A of 
the Project 
62,240,000 
45% 
(2)  Civil works under Part B of the 
Project 
27,440,000 
50% 
(3)  Equipment and goods under 
Part A of the Project 
  3,990,000 
100% 
(4)  Plants and equipment under 
Part C of the Project 
  3,820,000 
60% 
(5)  Technical study and training 
         780,000 
100% 
(6)  Interest during construction 
  1,480,000 
Amounts payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(c) of the 
General Conditions until  
June 30, 2016  
(7)  Front-end Fee 
 
 
 
     250,000 
 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(8)  Premium on Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest rate Collar 
  0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
100,000,000 
 
 
- 13 - 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after  
September 1, 2010 for Eligible Expenditures under the Project. 
 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 
 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
October 15, 2017 
2.51% 
April 15, 2018 
2.57% 
October 15, 2018 
2.64% 
April 15, 2019 
2.70% 
October 15, 2019 
2.77% 
April 15, 2020 
2.84% 
October 15, 2020 
2.91% 
April 15, 2021 
2.98% 
October 15, 2021 
3.06% 
April 15, 2022 
3.13% 
October 15, 2022 
3.21% 
April 15, 2023 
3.29% 
October 15, 2023 
3.38% 
April 15, 2024 
3.46% 
October 15, 2024 
3.55% 
April 15, 2025 
3.64% 
October 15, 2025 
3.73% 
April 15, 2026 
3.82% 
October 15, 2026 
3.91% 
April 15, 2027 
4.01% 
October 15, 2027 
4.11% 
April 15, 2028 
4.22% 
October 15, 2028 
4.32% 
April 15, 2029 
4.43% 
October 15, 2029 
4.54% 
April 15, 2030 
4.65% 
- 15 - 
October 15, 2030 
4.77% 
April 15, 2031 
4.85% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
- 16 - 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
 
- 17 - 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anhui” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui, and any successor thereto, 
and also referred to as Project Implementing Entity. 
 
2. 
“APMO” means the Anhui Provincial Project Management Office, established by 
the Project Implementing Entity (Anhui), and to be maintained according to the 
provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Part A of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
3. 
“APTD” means the Anhui Provincial Transport Department, established by 
Project Implementing Entity (Anhui), and to be maintained according to the 
provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Part A of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.  
 
5. 
“APPSCIG” means Anhui Provincial Port & Shipping Construction Investment 
Group Co. Ltd., a company solely owned by the Project Implementing Entity 
(Anhui) and duly incorporated under the laws of the Borrower, and registered 
under License No.340000000002493, in the Province of Anhui, and which is to 
be maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(d) of Part A of  
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
6. 
“APPSMB” means Anhui Provincial Port and Shipping Management Bureau, 
established by the Project Implementing Entity (Anhui), and to be maintained 
according to the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of Part A of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Construction Period” means the period commencing on January 1, 2011 and 
ending on June 30, 2016 in relation to the construction of works under Parts A 
and B of the Project. 
 
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
- 18 - 
10. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
11. 
“Environmental Management Plans” or the acronym “EMP”  means collectively, 
each of the Environmental Management Plans,  dated September 1, 2010,  
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity (Anhui), which plans set out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental thereto; and “Environmental Management Plan” means, 
individually, any of the Environmental Management Plans. 
 
12. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the financial management manual dated 
June 24, 2010, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets out the overall Project 
financial management arrangements in respect of Project flow of funds, 
accounting policies and procedures, chart of accounts, financial and accounting 
procedures, books of accounts, financial reporting, and internal controls, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with prior mutual consent of the 
Borrower and the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental thereto.  
 
13. 
“Fuyang City” means the city in Anhui, where the Project is located. 
 
14. 
“Fuyang Government” means the government of Fuyang City. 
 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
16. 
“Interest during construction” means the interest and other charges accrued 
during the Construction Period, and payable on the Loan in accordance with the 
terms set forth or referenced in this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 10, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
- 19 - 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Anhui of even 
date herewith as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui. 
 
21. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” or the acronym “RAPs” means, collectively, each of 
the Resettlement Action Plans, dated August 24, 2010,  adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity (Anhui), which plans set out, inter alia: (a) the principles 
and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of the Project; 
and (b) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
plans, as said RAPs may be revised from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement Action Plan” means, individually, any 
of the Resettlement Action Plans. 
 
22. 
“Training” means the costs of training under the Project, based on annual work 
plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, 
workshops, and domestic and overseas study tours, along with travel and 
subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of 
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other 
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation. 
 
