 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8059-CN 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Shandong Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 2, 2011  
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 2, 2011, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 2 - 
 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by Shandong in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 - 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
 
By 
/s/ Chen Shixin  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
/s/ Klaus Rohland 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve energy efficiency in selected 
enterprises in the Borrower’s Shandong Province, particularly through financial leasing 
arrangements, and increase use of biomass for power and heat generation. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Energy Efficiency Sub-projects 
 
 
Carrying out eligible energy efficiency Sub-projects through financial leasing 
and energy performance contracting arrangements.   
 
Part B:  Anqiu Biomass CHP Plant 
 
 
Construction of a biomass CHP plant in Anqiu of Shandong Province, including, 
inter alia, the provision of relevant civil works, goods, and equipment and the 
construction of relevant steam network and district heating network.   
 
Part C:  Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation  
 
 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Management Office, Rongshihua, 
Guotai, Luxin Energy, and ACHP in Project management, monitoring and evaluation 
through provision of technical assistance, training and study tours. 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1.  
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to Shandong under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.   
 
 
(b) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of seventeen (17) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years: (A) the principal amount so 
made available; (B) the amount of the Front-end Fee paid pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement; and (C) the amount of the Premium paid 
pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement.  
 
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
2. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall 
cause Shandong to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
in Annex C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one (1) calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than March 15 of each calendar year, starting March 15, 2012. The 
Borrower shall cause Shandong to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 
September 15 and March 15 of each calendar year, commencing March 15, 2012, 
semi-annual Project progress reports.   
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A.1 of this Section II above, 
the Borrower shall cause Shandong to prepare, under terms of reference 
- 7 - 
 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank on or about December 31,  
2013, a mid-term report on the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding such report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause Shandong to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than September 15 
and March 15 of each calendar year, commencing March 15, 2012, and interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
 Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
- 8 - 
 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods manufactured in 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of 
the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with 
the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which 
may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum 
of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
 
- 9 - 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall 
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or Shandong, as the case may 
be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the 
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount 
of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or 
Shandong, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to 
- 10 - 
 
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (i) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are 
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the 
procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered 
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
Shandong shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
(b) 
Shopping  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely of national consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality-and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
- 11 - 
 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection  
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) 
Single-source Selection 
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)       Sole-source Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and the 
first contract for goods to be procured on the basis of Shopping under each Sub-
project, regardless of its contract value thereof; (b) each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, and the first contract for 
works to be procured on the basis of Shopping under each Sub-project, regardless 
of its contract value thereof; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided 
by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by a firm on the basis of Single-source 
Selection, regardless of its contract value thereof; and (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual on the basis of Sole-source 
Selection, regardless of its contract value thereof.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
- 12 - 
 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods (including supply and 
installation) for Sub-projects under 
Part A of the Project for: 
 
(a) Rongshihua   
 
(b)  Guotai   
 
(c) Luxin Energy 
 
 
 
 
63,690,000 
 
49,755,000  
 
19,900,000  
 
 
 
 
50% 
 
50% 
 
50% 
 
(2)  Goods (including supply and 
installation) and works under Part B of 
the Project 
 
15,910,000 
 
100% 
 
(3)  Consultants services, and Training, 
Study Tours, and Workshops under  
Part C of the Project  
 
370,000 
100% 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
 
 
 
375,000 
 
 
 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b)  
of the General 
Conditions 
 
(5) Premium for Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar 
 
 
              0 
 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,910,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after November 1, 2010 for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2);    
 
(b) 
for payments under Category (1)(a), until Shandong and Rongshihua 
have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank;   
 
(c) 
for payments under Category (1)(b), until Shandong and Guotai have 
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(d) 
for payments under Category (1)(c), until Shandong and Luxin Energy 
have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank; or 
 
(e) 
for payments under Category (2), until Anqiu Municipality and ACHP 
have entered into a subsidiary loan agreement under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2016. 
 
- 14 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2015  
 
through September 15, 2027 
 
3.85% 
On March 15, 2028 
3.75% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
- 15 - 
 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
 
 
- 16 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“ACHP” means Anqiu Shengyuan Biomass CHP Company, established and 
operating pursuant to its Charter dated May 16, 2008, and to Business License 
No. 370784000000102 dated September 29, 2010, issued by Anqiu City Industry 
and Commerce Administrative Bureau, or any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“Anqiu Municipality” means the municipality of Anqiu in the Borrower’s 
Shandong Province. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CHP” means Combined Heat and Power. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
7. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
8. 
“Environment Management Framework” means the Framework dated December 
2010, prepared for Part A of the Project and adopted by Rongshihua, Guotai, and 
Luxin Energy, which sets forth policies and procedures for the preliminary 
screening of proposed Sub-projects, and for the preparation of environmental 
assessment 
and 
environment 
management 
plans 
therefor 
during 
the 
implementation of the Project, as said Framework may be amended from time to 
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all 
schedules and annexes supplemental to the Environment Management 
Framework. 
- 17 - 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Environmental Management Plan 
dated September 2010, prepared for Part B of the Project and adopted by ACHP, 
which said plan sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of said 
Part of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to 
time with the written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all 
schedules and annexes supplemental to the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
11. 
“Guotai” means Guotai Leasing Company Limited established and operating 
pursuant to its Charter dated February 3, 2007, and to Business License No. 
370127000001294, dated February 12, 2007, issued by Jinan Municipality 
Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, or any successor thereto. 
 
 
12. 
“Luxin Energy” means Shandong Luxin Energy Investment and Management 
Company, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated June 30, 1994, 
and to Business License No. 370000018026621 dated March 9, 2011, issued by 
Shandong Provincial Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Operational Manuals” means collectively: (i) the manuals prepared and adopted 
by Rongshihua and Guotai respectively, each dated December 14, 2010; and            
(ii) the manual prepared and adopted by Luxin Energy dated December 22, 2010; 
and all referred to in paragraph 5.01 of Annex A of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as such Manuals may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement by the Bank; and “Operational Manual” means any of the 
Operations Manuals; and such term includes all schedules and annexes 
supplemental to the Operational Manuals. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 17, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Shandong and 
any successor thereto.  
 
17. 
“Project Implementation Unit” means the unit referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Annex A or Annex B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.    
- 18 - 
 
18. 
“Project Management Office” means the World Bank and Asian Development 
Bank Energy Conservation Project Management Office established in 2009 and 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Resettlement Policy Frameworks” means, collectively: (i) the Frameworks 
prepared and adopted by Rongshihua and Guotai respectively, each dated April 
2010; and (ii) the Framework prepared and adopted by Luxin Energy dated 
August 2010; and all referred to in paragraph 7(b) of Annex A of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement; said Frameworks setting out the policies and procedures 
for the acquisition of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action 
plans as may be required for Project activities, as said Frameworks may be 
revised from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said 
Frameworks; and a “Resettlement Policy Framework” means, individually, any 
of said Resettlement Policy Frameworks.  
20. 
“Rongshihua” means Rongshihua Leasing Company Limited, established and 
operating pursuant to its Charter dated May 5, 2009, and to Business License No. 
370000018014799 dated February 1, 2007, issued by Shandong Municipality 
Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, or any successor thereto. 
 
21. 
“Shandong” means the Borrower’s Province of Shandong, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
22. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively: (i) the agreement to be 
entered into between Shandong and Rongshihua; (ii) the agreement to be entered 
into between Shandong and Guotai; (iii) the agreement to be entered into 
between Shandong and Luxin Energy; and (iv) the agreement to be entered into 
between Anqiu Municipality and ACHP; all pursuant to Section I, paragraph 2 of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time with prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all 
schedules and supplements to said agreements; and a “Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement” means, individually, any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
 
23. 
“Sub-project” means an eligible energy efficiency project under Part A of the 
Project to be selected and carried out in accordance with the provisions of the 
respective Operational Manual and the relevant provisions in the Project 
Agreement; and the term “Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Sub-
projects.  
 
24. 
“Sub-project Agreement” means in the case of Rongshihua and Guotai, a 
financial leasing agreement with a Sub-project Beneficiary; and in the case of 
Luxin Energy, an energy performance contract with a Sub-project Beneficiary, 
and referred to in paragraph 10 of Annex A of the Schedule to the Project 
- 19 - 
 
Agreement; and “Sub-project Agreements” mean, collectively, all such Sub-
project Agreements; and such term includes all schedules and annexes 
supplemental to the Sub-project Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Sub-project Beneficiary” means an enterprise or an energy service company 
(ESCO), established and operating pursuant to the relevant laws of the Borrower 
and selected pursuant to the eligibility criteria set out in the relevant Operational 
Manual; and “Sub-project Beneficiaries” mean, collectively, all such Sub-project 
Beneficiaries. 
 
26. 
“Training, Study Tours, and Workshops” means for purposes of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per 
diem for trainees attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars and the 
cost of delivering training, such as rental of training space and training 
equipment and other logistical costs.  
 
