  
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8051- CN 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(Shandong Confucius and Mencius Cultural Heritage Conservation Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
  
 
 
 
 
Dated July 15, 2011 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 15, 2011 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF 
CHINA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or 
in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars 
($50,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of 
this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of 
one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a 
rate equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable 
Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the 
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawal Loan 
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a 
period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall 
instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 2 - 
 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent 
debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest 
rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the 
setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by 
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 
that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as 
defined in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To 
this end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity (Shandong) in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Xinchen District 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
By/s/ ZHANG Wencai  
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By/s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Shandong Province to enhance 
cultural heritage conservation, development and tourism management in Qufu and 
Zoucheng.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts subject to modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A.  Cultural Heritage Conservation and Presentation  
 
1. Conservation of cultural heritage assets in Qufu Confucius Complex and 
the Nishan mountain including, inter alia, conservation of the Confucius 
temple, mansion and cemetery buildings, traditional pavements, gardens, 
stone tablets and inscriptions,  modification works for adaptive reuse of 
heritage buildings; conservation of the Nishan mountain buildings, and 
slope protection for ancient trees.    
 
2. Conservation of cultural heritage assets in the Ming Old City in Qufu 
including, inter alia, selected historic mansions and buildings, archways, 
ancient wells, ancient trees, and stone tablets and inscriptions.  
 
3. Conservation, management and display  of cultural heritage assets in the 
Lu Old City in Qufu including, inter alia, conservation of stone 
inscriptions, traditional roads, and walkways; protection and display of 
ancient city moat and wall; rehabilitation of rivers; and construction of 
wooden walkways, rest areas and sanitation facilities.  
 
4. Conservation of cultural heritage assets in the Zoucheng Old City 
including, inter alia, conservation of the Mencius temple, mansion and 
cemetery buildings, traditional pavements, gardens and ancient trees; 
restoration of the cemetery boundary wall; modification works for 
adaptive reuse of heritage buildings; construction of a visitor center and 
parking lot; installation of safety and surveillance systems; and 
rehabilitation of Xishantou village infrastructure including roads, water 
supply, drainage, sanitation facilities, and street lighting. 
 
5. (a) Provision of signage, interpretation and digital displays in Qufu and 
Zoucheng including inter alia, sound guiding systems, roads and street 
signs, descriptions and explanations of significance of cultural heritage 
assets, directions to other heritage sites and resting areas, production and 
distribution of brochures and promotional materials, interactive digital 
display systems. (b) Development of a digital display system in 
Confucius Academy to depict and disseminate Confucius’ teachings. 
 
- 5 - 
 
Part B. Old City Regeneration and Infrastructure Upgrading  
 
1. Carrying out of urban improvements in the Ming Old City in Qufu 
including,  inter alia, urban redevelopment of Block A in the Ming Old 
City, renewal of all trunk infrastructure in the eastern zone of the Ming 
Old City, remodeling of private houses, and  infrastructure improvements  
in Block A and the Gupan pond block, and construction of fire fighting 
facilities.  
 
2. Rehabilitation of the city moat and Gupan pond water system in the Ming 
Old City in Qufu, including diversion of water from the Si River, and 
landscaping and river course rehabilitation. 
 
3. Carrying out of urban improvements in the Zoucheng Old City, including 
urban redevelopment of three (3) street blocks; urban redevelopment of 
Block A in the Zoucheng Old City including remodeling of private 
houses, construction of infrastructure and fire fighting facilities; 
construction of archways; and reconstruction of the Mencius primary 
school.  
 
4. Rehabilitation of the Yinli River in Zoucheng including river dredging 
and regulation, river bank rehabilitation including footpaths, roads, 
wastewater interceptors, lighting, bridge, water retention weirs, public 
sanitation facilities, and landscaping.  
 
5. Cultural heritage conservation and tourism development in Qufu and 
Zoucheng, using a community participation approach, through:  
 
a. Training and technical assistance support for heritage-related small 
business development, including handicraft development, improving 
quality of services, and design of marketable products, for selected 
residents of Qufu and Zoucheng; and 
 
b. Conservation of privately-owned historic buildings in Qufu, including 
essential structural repairs to stabilize the buildings.  
 
Part C. Manuals, Guidelines and other Assistance to Project Implementation: 
 
Development of: 
 
1. conservation techniques for wood, color paintings, stone tablets, and 
stone inscriptions; 
 
2. infrastructure networks for the Ming Old City in Qufu; 
 
3. guidelines for old city regeneration, planning, and development control; 
 
4. a manual on community participation and sustainable tourism 
management;  
- 6 - 
 
 
5. a detailed development plan for the Ming Old City in Qufu; and 
 
6. an update of the Qufu Ming Old City conservation plan. 
 
Part D. Capacity Building and Assistance to Project Implementation  
 
Carrying out: 
 
 
1. assistance for design reviews, Project management and monitoring; and  
 
2. assistance for preparation of a management plan for the World Heritage 
Site and sites on the Tentative List; 
 
3. training and exchange program on cultural heritage conservation for staff 
of cultural heritage conservation agencies in Qufu and Zoucheng; 
 
4. training in sustainable tourism development, marketing, and tourism 
management;  
 
5. training and study tours for Project related capacity building; and  
 
6. Provision of institutional support for the Project through acquisition of 
office equipments. 
 
- 7 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
the principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other 
currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn;   
 
(b) 
the principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the 
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium for 
Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General 
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of twenty-one (21) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of eight (8) years; and  
 
(c) 
interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause the Project 
Implementing Entity (Shandong) to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the 
Annex of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover 
- 8 - 
 
 
the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than March 15 and September 15 in each year, starting on March 15, 2012.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall  review with the Bank (mid-term review), not later than July 
1, 2014 the progress made in the implementation of the Project, together with any 
recommendations the Borrower, Shandong or the Bank may have on the needs 
for Project restructuring. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity (Shandong) to prepare and furnish to the 
Bank as part of the Project Reports by not later than March 15 and September 15 
in each year after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Shandong) to have 
the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
- 9 - 
 
 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.  In addition, the procedures to be 
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in 
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic 
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
    
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall 
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission.   
   
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
   
(iii) All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
- 10 - 
 
 
(iv) All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity (Shandong), as the case may be, in case of breach of 
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall 
specify the required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity (Shandong), as the case may be. 
 
(ix) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined:  
(A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and 
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall 
not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake 
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents 
or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a 
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
- 11 - 
 
 
 
 
(xii) All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall 
not take place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered price 
of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope 
of the awarded contract.   
 
(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity (Shandong) shall have in place 
provisions for bidders to protest. 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c)        Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection  
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
(c) 
Single-source Selection  
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General 
Conditions; (b) if applicable, the Premium for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate 
Collars in accordance with Section 2.07(c) of the General Conditions; and  
(c) other Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 13 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed (inclusive of 
Taxes) 
(1) Goods   
 
6,190,000 
100% 
(2) Works for:  
 
     (a) Part B.2 of the Project; 
 
 
(b)  Part B.5.2 of the            
Project; 
 
     (c) Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, 
B.1(other than for 
remodeling of private 
houses); and 
 
     (d) Parts A.4, B.3(other 
than for remodeling of 
private houses), and B.4 
of the Project 
 
 
5,350,000 
 
 
   260,000 
 
 
 
           14,395,000 
 
 
 
 
 
21,760,000 
 
 
80% 
 
100% 
 
 
70% 
 
 
66% 
(3) Consultants’ services and 
Training and Study Tours for: 
 
      (a) Parts B.5.a, 
D.3,D.4,and D.5 of the 
Project; and  
 
       (b) Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, 
C.4, C.5, C.6, D.1, D.2 
and all other Parts of the 
Project 
 
 
 
 
 
   150,000 
 
 
1,770,000 
 
 
 
 
50% 
 
 
100% 
- 14 - 
 
 
 
(4) 
Front-end Fee 
  125,000 
Amount pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement in 
accordance 
with 
Section 
2.07(b) 
of 
the 
General 
Conditions  
(5) 
Premium for Interest    
Rate Caps or Interest Rate 
Collars 
            0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
      50,000,000 
 
- 15 - 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be made 
for payments for Eligible Expenditures made prior to this date and within twelve 
(12) months prior to the date of this Agreement but on or after December 1, 
2010. 
  
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 
 
- 16 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  
 
 (a)  
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by  
 
(b)  
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15  and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2019 
through October  15, 2031 
 
 
 
3.85% 
On April 15, 2032 
3.75 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
- 17 - 
 
 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 18 - 
 
 
APPENDIX  
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
 
2. 
“Block A” means any of the two city blocks so named  in the Ming Old City in 
Qufu and the Zoucheng Old City, and which are included for redevelopment 
under Parts B1 and B3 of the Project.  
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
5. 
 “CPMO” means any of the City project management office referred to in Section 
I.A.1(d) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
7. 
The acronym “EMP” means, collectively, the Environmental Impact 
Assessments and Environmental Management Plan prepared by Shandong 
Province for the Project and dated October 31, 2010, which set out specific 
actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefit of the Project 
and for the protection of the environment; and eliminate, offset or mitigate any  
adverse impact on physical cultural resources or the environment, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
actions, measures and policies, as said assessments and plans may be revised 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term 
includes all schedules and annexes to said assessments and plan. 
 
8. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
- 19 - 
 
 
 
9. 
“Jining Municipality” or “Jining” means Jining Municipality within the 
Borrower’s Shandong Province, or any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“MPMO” means the municipal project management office referred to in Section 
I.A.1(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Old City” means the parts of the cities of Qufu and Zoucheng which contain 
cultural heritage assets within the boundaries described in the respective historic 
city conservation plans. 
 
12. 
“PIU” means any of the Implementation Units within the Project Bureau referred 
to in Section I.A.1(e) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
13. 
“PPMO” means the Provincial Project management offices referred to in  
Section I.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 18, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Project Bureau” means, individually, each of the following bureaus and 
committees: Qufu Cultural Relics and Tourism Bureau, Qufu City Water 
Resources Bureau, Qufu City Planning Bureau, Management Committee for 
Qufu Cultural Industry Park, Zoucheng Cultural Relics and Tourism Bureau, 
Zoucheng City Water Resources Bureau, and Zoucheng City Construction 
Bureau; and “Project Bureaus” means more than one Project Bureau. 
  
17. 
“Project Cities” means, collectively,  Qufu City and Zoucheng City; and “Project 
City” means either of the Project Cities. 
 
18. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “Shandong” means the Borrower’s Shandong 
Province, or any successor thereto.  
 
19. 
“Project Participants” means Jining, and the Project Cities and their respective 
Project Bureaus. 
 
20. 
“Qufu City” or “Qufu” means Qufu City in Jining Municipality. 
 
- 20 - 
 
 
21. 
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan, dated November 20, 2010, prepared 
by Shandong Province, which set out the principles and procedures governing the 
acquisition of land and related assets, and the compensation, resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of the Project, as 
well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to 
said plan. 
 
22. 
“SACH” means the Borrower’s State Administration for Cultural Heritage, or 
any successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“Tentative List” means the sites in Qufu and Zoucheng linked to Confucius and 
Mencius that are under consideration by UNESCO for inclusion on the World 
Heritage List. 
 
24. 
“Training and Study Tours” mean, for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, and based on an annual budget prior approved between the 
Borrower and the Bank, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per diem for 
trainees attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars and the cost of 
delivering training (excluding consultants’ fees), including rental of training 
space and training equipment and other logistical costs, all as agreed between the 
Borrower and the  Bank. 
 
25. 
“UNESCO” means the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization, or any successor thereto. 
 
26. 
“World Heritage Site” means the temple, cemetery and family mansion of 
Confucius recognized by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. 
 
27. 
“Zoucheng City” or “Zoucheng” means Zoucheng City within Jining 
Municipality. 
 
 
