CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8026-VN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Second Transmission and Distribution Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 31, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
May 
31, 
2011, 
between 
SOCIALIST                   
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred eighty million 
Dollars ($180,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing Parts A.1 and C of the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or un-withdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause NPT’s Respective Part of the Project to be carried 
out by NPT in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and NPT. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
NPT and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NPT in accordance with its 
terms. 
3
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State 
Bank of Vietnam. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Lý Thái T
Hanoi 
Vietnam 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK  
 
412248  
 
(84-4) 3825-0612 
Hanoi  
 
NHTWVT 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Hanoi, Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: Victoria Kwakwa  
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist the Borrower in developing an 
efficient electricity transmission and distribution system, thus enabling the timely 
evacuation of power from new electricity generation plants to growing load centers and 
the maintenance of system security and reliability and power quality; and (ii) contribute 
to the restructuring of the Borrower’s power sector. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional part: 
 
C.2. 
Capacity building of NPT in relation to investment financing, debt management, 
and the management of regulatory affairs. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
Ministry of Industry and Trade
The Borrower shall be responsible for the provision of policy and strategic 
orientation to the Project through the Ministry of Industry and Trade. 
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of NPT’s Respective Part of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to NPT under a 
Subsidiary Agreement among the Borrower, represented by the Ministry of 
Finance, and the Project Implementing Entities, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall include: 
 
(a) 
the obligation of NPT to: 
 
(i) 
(A) pay the Borrower a front-end fee in an amount equal to the Front-end 
Fee specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement; (B) repay the proceeds 
of the Loan over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of ten and a half (10.5) years; and (C) pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the 
rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement, 
subject to any request that the Borrower may make pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement, plus an on-lending fee of a quarter of 
one percent (0.25%); 
 
(ii) 
ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; 
(iii) 
ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or 
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof; 
7
(iv) 
ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Environmental Guidelines, any Environmental 
Management 
Plans, 
the 
Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework, 
any 
Resettlement Action Plans, the Ethnic Minorities’ Development 
Framework, and any Ethnic Minorities’ Development Plans, and to not, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or 
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof; 
(v) 
ensure that: (i) a financial management system is maintained and 
financial statements are prepared in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate 
to reflect the operations and financial condition of NPT, including the 
operations, resources, and expenditures related to the Project; and 
(ii) such statements are audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and such audited financial statements are 
furnished to the Borrower and the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II.D.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement 
and made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
(vi) 
ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and services required for its 
Respective Part of the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2, as said provisions may be 
further elaborated in the Procurement Plan; and 
(b) 
the obligation of EVN to guarantee, on behalf of NPT, the payments referred to 
in subparagraph (a) (i) of this paragraph 1. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree 
in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to 
be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any 
provision thereof. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
8
D. 
Manual 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the Project Operations Manual; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, 
abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such Manual and those of this 
Agreement, the latter shall govern. 
 
E. 
Safeguards 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental Guidelines, any Environmental Management 
Plans, the Resettlement Policy Framework, any Resettlement Action Plans, the 
Ethnic Minorities’ Development Framework, and any Ethnic Minorities’ 
Development Plans, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, 
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
A. 
Semi-Annual Reviews 
The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank and NPT, no later than one (1) 
month after the transmittal by NPT of each Project Report to the Bank, such 
Report, and thereafter cause NPT to take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of NPT’s Respective Part of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives of the Project, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of such Report and the Borrower and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
B. 
Midterm Review 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
carry 
out 
jointly 
with 
the 
Bank 
and 
NPT, 
no 
later 
than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, a midterm review to 
assess the status of NPT’s Respective Part of the Project, as measured 
against the performance indicators set forth in Section II.A.1 (b) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Such review shall include an 
assessment of the following: (i) overall progress in implementation of 
such Part of the Project; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation 
activities; (iii) progress on the implementation of annual work plans and 
budgets; (iv) progress on procurement and disbursement; (v) progress on 
the implementation of safeguards measures; (vi) implementation 
9
arrangements; and (vii) the need to make any adjustments to such Part of 
the Project and reallocate funds to improve performance; 
(b) 
cause NPT to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, at least 
three (3) months before such review, a report, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, needed to undertake the 
review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of such Part of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of the said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of such Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project during the 
period following such date; and 
(c)  
review, jointly with the Bank and NPT, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this Part B and thereafter cause NPT to take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of NPT’s 
Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of 
the Project, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report 
and the Borrower and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
C. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports, and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of NPT.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, financial restructuring, promotion of private sector participation, 
promotion of efficiency, adjustments of the structure or levels of tariffs, and 
causing EVN to provide financial assistance) in order to enable NPT to meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraphs 4, 5, 6, and 7 of Section II.D of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
10 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and Works.   All goods, non-consulting 
services, and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and 
Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods, non-consulting services, and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and 
Works.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consulting 
services, and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set out in 
the Annex to this Schedule 
(b) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
11 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Single-Source Selection 
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Percentage of 
12 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
services, works, consulting 
services, 
Training, 
and 
Operating Costs for the 
Project to be financed 
under the Loan  
 
179,550,000 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
       450,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
180,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
 
13 
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures 
 
The procedures to be followed for the procurement of goods, non-consulting 
services, and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in: (a) Article 18 on Open Bidding of the Borrower’s Law 
on Procurement No. 61/2005/QH11 dated November 29, 2005; (b) the Borrower’s Law 
No. 38/2009/QH12 Amending and Supplementing a Number of Articles of Laws 
Concerning Capital Construction Investment dated June 19, 2009; and (c) the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 85/2009/ND-CP Guiding Implementation of the Law on the Procurement and 
Selection 
of 
Construction 
Contractors 
under 
the 
Construction 
Law 
dated 
October 15, 2009 (collectively, “National Procurement Laws”), subject to the 
modifications set out below in order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and 
broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines 
pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines, and required under paragraph 3.4 of said 
Guidelines.  In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Borrower’s 
procedures and those of the modifications set out below, the latter shall govern. 
 
Eligibility
1. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of said Guidelines; 
accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts 
financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the Guidelines.  
Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same conditions as 
national bidders.  In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders shall be 
granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked or 
required to form joint ventures with national bidders in order to submit a bid.  Bidders 
located in the same province or city as the procuring entity shall not be given preference 
over bidders located outside that city or province. 
 
2. 
In addition to the foregoing requirements, equitized Borrower-owned enterprises 
in which the Borrower holds less than fifty percent (50%) of the shares are eligible to 
participate, provided that (a) the procuring entity or investment owner does not own 
shares (or represent the Borrower’s shares) in the enterprise, and (b) the governing board 
and management team are autonomous from the procuring entity and the investment 
owner.  Military or security units or enterprises established under, reporting directly or 
indirectly to, or owned wholly or partly by, the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of 
Public Security shall not be permitted to bid. 
 
Registration
3. 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications.  A foreign bidder 
shall not be required to register as a condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to 
14 
be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without any let or hindrance.  Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular 
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid. 
 
Advertising; Time for Bid Preparation
4. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national 
newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days from the date of the invitation to bid 
or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, for the 
preparation and submission of bids, and potential bidders shall be allowed to purchase 
bidding documents up to any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.  In 
addition, the Borrower is encouraged to advertise in the Government Public Procurement 
Newspaper and on a free and open access website. 
 
Standard Bidding Documents
5. 
Standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
 
Qualification Criteria 
6. 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and all 
criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used to determine whether a 
bidder is qualified.  Qualification shall be assessed on a pass or fail basis and merit points 
shall not be used.  Such assessment shall only take into account the bidder’s capacity and 
resources to perform the contract, specifically its experience and past performance on 
similar contracts, capabilities with respect to personnel, equipment, and construction and 
manufacturing facilities, and financial capacity. 
 
Bid Submission, Bid Opening, and Bid Evaluation
7. 
Bidders may submit bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or 
by mail.  Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids.  Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to 
the bidders unopened. 
 
(a) 
Bidding documents shall be sold to anyone who is willing to pay the 
required fee of the bidding documents which shall not exceed the costs of 
printing, reproduction, and delivery, and no other conditions shall be 
imposed on the sale of the bidding documents.  
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that 
shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in 
monetary terms for evaluation criteria other than price; merit points shall 
not be used in bid evaluation. 
 
15 
(c) 
A contract shall be awarded to the technically responsive bid that offers 
the lowest evaluated price, and no negotiations shall be permitted.  A 
bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake 
obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to 
modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(d) 
A bidder shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantive deviations. 
 
(e) 
No bidder shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the 
employer’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior written 
agreement. 
 
(f) 
A copy of the minutes of the public bid opening shall be promptly 
provided to all bidders who submitted bids, and to the Bank with respect 
to contracts subject to prior review. 
 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
8
All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
written agreement. 
 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
9. 
The Borrower shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism 
allowing bidders to protest and have their protests handled in a timely manner. 
 
Fraud and Corruption
10. 
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank if it at any time determines 
that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in competing for, or in executing, 
a contract financed by the Bank. 
 
Right to Inspect / Audit
11. 
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan 
shall include a provision requiring bidders, suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors to 
permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid 
submission and performance of the contract and have said accounts and records audited 
by auditors appointed by the Bank.  The deliberate and material violation by the bidder, 
supplier, contractor, or subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive 
practices. 
 
16 
License
12. 
Foreign contractors shall be given a reasonable opportunity to apply for and 
obtain a work license, which shall not be arbitrarily withheld. 
 
Publication of the Award of Contract
13. 
The Borrower shall publish the following information on contract award in the 
Government Public Procurement Newspaper, on a free and open access website, or 
through another means of publication acceptable to the Borrower: (a) the name of each 
bidder who submitted a bid; (b) the bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) the name 
and evaluated price of each bid that was evaluated; (d) the names of bidders whose bids 
were rejected and the reasons for their rejection; and (e) the name of the winning bidder 
and the price it offered, as well as the duration and summary scope of the contract 
awarded.  This publication shall be updated regularly. 
17 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
Beginning March 15, 2022 
Through September 15, 2035 
 
3.45 
On March 15, 2036  
3.40 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
18 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
19 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
 
2. 
“Central Power Projects Management Board” means NPT (as hereinafter 
defined)’s entity responsible for the management of high-voltage power 
transmission activities in the central part of the Borrower’s territory, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
“Department of Finance” means NPT (as hereinafter defined)’s department 
responsible for the management of finance, or any successor thereto. 
 
5. 
“Department of Investment and Construction” means NPT (as hereinafter 
defined)’s department responsible for the management of investment and 
construction, or any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Department of Natural Resources and Environment” means the Borrower’s 
provincial-level entity, under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment 
(as hereinafter defined), responsible for the management of natural resources and 
the environment at the provincial level, or any successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“Department of Compensation” means the department of each of the Central and 
Southern Power Project Management Boards (as hereinafter defined) responsible 
for the management of environmental and social safeguards in relation to the 
respective Board’s activities, or any successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of implementation of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such persons. 
 
20 
9. 
“Environmental Guidelines” means EVN (as hereinafter defined)’s guidelines, 
dated May 2005, adopted pursuant to Instruction No. 2764-EVN-HTQT dated 
June 2, 2005, agreed with the Bank and setting out mitigation, enhancement, 
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through 
training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be 
implemented under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, 
or enhance positive impacts, and guidelines and procedures for the preparation of 
Environmental Management Plans (as hereinafter defined), as the same may be 
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and 
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such guidelines. 
 
10. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means NPT’s plan, to be agreed with the 
Bank and setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional 
measures, including capacity building through training, to eliminate any adverse 
environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under a Subproject, offset 
them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Guidelines, as the same 
may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, 
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan. 
 
11. 
“Ethnic Minorities” means social groups disadvantaged in the development 
process and with a social and cultural identity distinct from those which 
constitute the predominant ethnic group in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
12. 
“Ethnic Minorities’ Development Framework” means EVN (as hereinafter 
defined)’s framework, dated May 2005, adopted pursuant to Instruction 
No. 2764-EVN-HTQT dated June 2, 2005, agreed with the Bank and setting out 
the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including 
capacity building through training, that have been identified by EVN to ensure 
meaningful consultation with, and the informed participation of, Ethnic 
Minorities within the Project area who are affected by the Project, and guidelines 
and procedures for the preparation of Ethnic Minorities’ Development Plans (as 
hereinafter defined), as the same may be modified from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or 
schedules to such framework. 
 
13. 
“Ethnic Minorities’ Development Plan” means NPT’s plan, to be agreed with the 
Bank and setting out the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional 
measures, including capacity building through training, that have been identified 
by NPT to address any adverse effects on Ethnic Minorities associated with, and 
ensure culturally appropriate social and economic benefits for Ethnic Minorities 
under, a Subproject, in accordance with the provisions of the Ethnic Minorities’ 
Development Framework, as the same may be modified from time to time with 
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or 
schedules to such plan. 
21 
14. 
“EVN” means Vietnam Electricity, the Borrower’s wholly-owned enterprise, 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Borrower’s 
Decision 
No. 148/2006/QD-TTg dated June 22, 2006, and EVN’s charter, as adopted 
under said Decision, responsible for the development, operation, and 
maintenance, direct or indirect, of facilities for the generation, transmission, and 
distribution of electricity throughout the Borrower’s territory, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
15. 
“Financial Improvement Plan” means NPT (as hereinafter defined)’s plan, dated 
December 1, 2010, approved pursuant to EVN’s Resolution No. 794/NQ-HDTV 
dated December 7, 2010 as amended pursuant to EVN’s Resolution No. 806/NQ-
HDTV dated December 10, 2010, agreed with the Bank and setting out a time-
bound roadmap for purposes of improvement of NPT’s financial performance, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of 
the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan. 
 
16. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
17. 
“Government Public Procurement Newspaper” means the Borrower’s public 
procurement gazette. 
 
18. 
“kV” means kilovolt, or one thousand (1,000) volts, a standard unit of measure of 
electric voltage. 
 
19. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for the 
management of finance, or any successor thereto. 
 
20. 
“Ministry of Defense” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for the 
management of defense, or any successor thereto. 
 
21. 
“Ministry of Industry and Trade” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for 
the management of industry and trade, or any successor thereto. 
 
22. 
“Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment” means the Borrower’s 
ministry responsible for the management of natural resources and the 
environment, or any successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“Ministry of Public Security” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for the 
management of public security, or any successor thereto. 
 
24. 
“MVA” means megavolt ampere, or one million (1,000,000) volt amperes, a 
standard unit of measure of electric capacity. 
 
22 
25. 
“NPT” or “National Power Transmission Corporation” means EVN’s wholly-
owned subsidiary, established and operating pursuant to EVN’s Decision 
Nos. 223/QD-EVN 
dated 
April 
11, 
2008 
and 
510/QD-EVN 
dated 
August 28, 2008, and NPT’s charter, as adopted pursuant to the latter Decision, 
responsible for high-voltage power transmission activities, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
26. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs under the Project, 
based on the annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.D (a) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement as approved by the Bank, and incurred by the 
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entities for purposes of Project 
implementation, management, and monitoring and evaluation, on account of 
utilities and supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, 
maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment 
maintenance, public awareness-related media expenses, domestic travel and 
subsistence, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding 
salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses of members of the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
27. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Second Transmission and Distribution Project between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated March 16, 2006, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No. 4107-VN). 
 
28. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
29. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
30. 
“Procurement Plan” means NPT’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
February 21, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
31. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means, individually, each of the following: 
(a) NPT; and (b) EVN; and “Project Implementing Entities” means, collectively, 
both of said entities. 
 
32. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means: (a) for NPT, EVN’s 
Decision Nos. 223/QD-EVN dated April 11, 2008 and 510/QD-EVN dated 
August 28, 2008, and NPT’s charter, as adopted pursuant to the latter Decision; 
and (b) for EVN, the Borrower’s Decision No. 148/2006/QD-TTg, dated 
June 22, 2006, and EVN’s charter, as adopted under said Decision; and such term 
includes any other decisions, or any laws and regulations governing the 
23 
organization, reorganization, restructuring, and operations of the Project 
Implementing Entities as of the date of this Agreement. 
 
33. 
“Project Management Units” means, collectively, the Central and Southern 
Power Project Management Boards’ (the latter as hereinafter defined) units, 
responsible for the management of projects in the respective part of the 
Borrower’s territory, or any successors thereto. 
 
34. 
“Project Operations Manual” means NPT’s manual, dated January 7, 2011, 
agreed with the Bank and setting out implementation, organizational, 
administrative, monitoring and evaluation, environmental and social monitoring 
and mitigation, financial management, disbursement, and procurement 
arrangements for purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and 
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such manual. 
 
35. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means NPT’s plan, to be agreed with the Bank and 
setting out the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, 
including capacity building through training, to carry out acquisition of land and 
other assets, compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons 
under a Subproject, in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy 
Framework (as hereinafter defined), as the same may be modified from time to 
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any 
annexes or schedules to such plan. 
 
36. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s framework, dated 
May 2005, approved pursuant to its Decision Nos. 890/TTg-CN dated 
June 30, 2005 and 2192/QD-NLDK dated June 30, 2005, and adopted by EVN 
pursuant to Instruction No. 2764-EVN-HTQT dated June 2, 2005, agreed with 
the Bank and setting out the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and 
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to carry out 
acquisition of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement, and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and guidelines and procedures for the 
preparation of Resettlement Action Plans, under the Project, as the same may be 
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and 
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework. 
 
37. 
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of NPT, Parts A.1 and C of the 
Project. 
 
38. 
“Southern Power Project Management Board” means NPT’s entity responsible 
for the management of high-voltage power transmission activities in the southern 
part of the Borrower’s territory, or any successor thereto. 
 
24 
39. 
“State Bank of Vietnam” means the Borrower’s central bank, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
40. 
“Subproject” means one (1) or more contract packages under the Project, 
grouped together for procurement purposes. 
 
41. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to NPT. 
 
42. 
“Training” means the costs of training under the Project, based on the annual 
work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.D (a) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement as approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, 
workshops, and study tours, along with domestic and international travel and 
subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of 
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other 
activities 
directly 
related 
to 
course 
preparation 
and 
implementation.
 
