 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8065-IN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(National Ganga River Basin Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
INDIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated June 14, 2011  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
June 
14, 
2011, 
between 
INDIA 
(“Borrower”)  
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  
 
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Association (“Financing Agreement”), the Association is 
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equal to one 
hundred 
twenty 
three 
million 
twenty 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights  
(SDR 123,020,000) (“Credit”). 
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions 
for Loans, dated July 31, 2010 (the Bank General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to the Financing Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eight hundred one million Dollars 
($801,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
the Financing Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
- 2 - 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
 
Each such Conversion shall be carried out on such terms and conditions as may 
be separately agreed by the Bank and the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOEF, with the assistance 
of PMG and each of the SPMGs all in accordance with the provisions of  
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
(a)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement (except for Section IV.A of 
- 3 - 
said Schedule 2), which are incorporated into the Loan Agreement with the 
following modifications unless the context otherwise requires: 
(i)  
the term “Association” shall be read as “Bank”; 
 
(ii)  
the term “Credit” or “Financing” shall be read as “Loan”;  
 
 
(iii)  
the term “Recipient” shall be read as “Borrower”; 
 
(iv)  
the term “General Conditions” shall be read as the “Bank 
General Conditions”; and 
 
(v)  
the term “this Agreement” or “the Financing Agreement” shall 
be read as “the Loan Agreement”. 
 
(b)  
So long as any part of the Financing provided for under the Financing 
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been 
notified otherwise by the Bank: 
 
 
(i)  
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association 
pursuant to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the 
Financing Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of this 
Section shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on 
behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and 
(ii)  
all information or documentation furnished by the Recipient or 
Borrower to the Association pursuant to the provisions of any of 
such Sections of the Financing Agreement or Schedules thereto 
shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Association and the 
Bank. 
(c)  
If the Financing Agreement terminates prior to the termination of this 
Agreement, the provisions of the Financing Agreement referred to in this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower 
and the Bank. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement shall 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
- 4 - 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following: Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance 
North Block 
New Delhi 110 001 
India 
 
Facsimile:   
 
91-11-23092039 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
1-202-477-6391 
 
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
INDIA  
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/  Venu Rajamony 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/  N. Roberto Zagha 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE  
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15 , 2016 
 
through November 15, 2028 
 
 
 
3.85% 
On May 15, 2029 
3.75% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
- 6 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
 
 
