 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7998-CO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(National MACROPROYECTOS Social Interest Program Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated March 22, 2011 
  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated March 22, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change 
of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MAVDT with the support 
of FONVIVIENDA in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through MAVDT, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
That FONVIVIENDA shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the Administrative Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
(b) 
That FONVIVIENDA’s Legislation shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, not enforced or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of 
FONVIVIENDA to perform any of its obligations under the 
Administrative Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Administrative Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the parties 
thereto. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Administrative Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower (through MAVDT) and FONVIVIENDA and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower (through MAVDT) and FONVIVIENDA in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The legal framework for the list of Subprojects included in the Pipeline 
of Subprojects is valid and enforceable as it applies to them. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on July 11, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, República de Colombia 
 
Facsimile: (57-1) 350-9344 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Juan Carlos Echeverry  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
 
 
 
By /s/ Beatriz Elena Uribe Botero 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
Ministry of Environment, Housing  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and Regional Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Gloria Grandolini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to enable access to affordable housing solutions 
for low-income Beneficiaries. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts:  
 
Part 1:  Low-Income Land and Housing Development 
 
A. 
(i) 
Carrying out of technical studies and provision of technical assistance for 
Subprojects-I and Subprojects-III structuring and development, including 
inter alia, the preparation of real estate structuring technical support 
documents, the establishment of a real estate development trust and the 
monitoring of the contracting process of private developers for 
Subproject implementation;  
 
(ii) 
the provision of support to carry out the fiduciary management of 
Subprojects; and  
 
(iii) 
the carrying out of independent technical supervision for the 
implementation of Subprojects. 
 
B. 
(i) 
Provision of Grants-I to finance Subprojects-I for low-income public-
private land and housing developments which consist of investments in 
secondary water supply and sanitation, urban drainage, basic 
transportation infrastructure associated with the implementation of 
selected Subprojects-I, secondary electricity and gas networks and basic 
home building materials and costs associated with low income housing 
construction. 
 
(ii) 
Provision of Grants-II to finance: (1) Subprojects-II for low-income 
public-private land and housing developments which consist of the same 
type of investments included in Subprojects-I; and (2) the carrying out of 
technical studies and provision of technical assistance for Subproject-II 
structuring and development, including inter alia, the preparation of real 
estate structuring technical support documents, the establishment of a 
real estate development trust and the monitoring of the contracting 
process of private developers for Subproject implementation. 
 
(iii) 
Provision of Grants-III to finance Subprojects-III for low-income public 
land and housing developments, which consist of the same type of 
investments included in Subprojects-I. 
 
- 6 - 
 (iv) 
Provision of financing to cover indirect costs associated with Subproject 
management.   
 
Part 2:  Technical Assistance Program  
 
Provision of technical assistance related to low income land and housing 
solutions, which includes, inter alia, a framework for public-private and private 
operations, a real estate development business model, land management 
framework, land market and infrastructure assessments, feasibility studies for 
capital market access and feasibility studies for models for public housing 
interventions. 
 
Part 3:  Project Management 
 
Provision of support to MAVDT for the carrying out of activities related to 
Project management, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and supervision, 
including outreach communication activities to raise public awareness of the 
Project.  
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Transfer of Funds 
 
The Borrower shall promptly allocate the proceeds of the Loan to 
FONVIVIENDA through the Borrower’s budgetary mechanisms. 
 
B. 
Administrative Agreement 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MAVDT with the assistance of 
FONVIVIENDA, pursuant to an administrative agreement (the Administrative 
Agreement) to be entered into by and between MAVDT, and FONVIVIENDA, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter 
alia: 
 
(a)  
the roles and responsibilities of MAVDT and FONVIVIENDA with 
regard to Project implementation; 
 
(b)  
the obligation of MAVDT and FONVIVIENDA to carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
 
(c)  
the obligation of MAVDT: 
 
(i) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual (including the EMF and 
the SMF); 
 
(ii) 
with respect to Part 1.B of the Project, to cause FONVIVIENDA 
to ensure that the Subproject Developers comply with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and 
 
(iii) 
to provide the facilities, staff, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to carry out the Project;   
 
(d) 
the right of MAVDT to take remedial actions against FONVIVIENDA in 
case FONVIVIENDA shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the Administrative Agreement, all as previously agreed 
with the Bank; and 
 
 
(e) 
the obligation of FONVIVIENDA: 
- 8 - 
(i) 
to assist MAVDT in the carrying out of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, social and 
cultural property practices, as specified in the Operational 
Manual; 
 
 (ii) 
to provide the services and other resources necessary or 
appropriate to carry out the Project;  
 
(iii) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by, for example, 
allowing Bank inspection and audit rights under paragraph 9 (d) 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines);  
 
(iv) 
to assist MAVDT to comply with its obligations set forth in 
Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
enforce the Administrative Agreement or any provision thereof, 
unless previously agreed with the Bank;  
 
(vi) 
if applicable, to comply, or cause to be complied, with the 
obligations referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.10 
and 5.11 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, land 
acquisition, use of goods, works and services, maintenance of 
facilities, plans, documents and records, cooperation and 
consultation and visits, respectively) in respect of the Project; 
and 
 
(vii) 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the MAVDT to 
comply with its obligations set forth in Sections 3.01 and 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement in respect of the carrying out of the 
Project by MAVDT with the assistance of FONVIVIENDA. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall: (a) exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Administrative Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
MAVDT, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce 
the Administrative Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Administrative Agreement and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
 
- 9 - 
C. 
Institutional Arrangements  
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, with the assistance of FONVIVIENDA, shall: 
 
(a)  
entrust responsibility for the management, coordination and supervision 
of the Project to various structures and entities within MAVDT as 
described in the Operational Manual, including among them, a project 
coordination unit (the Equipo de Macroproyectos) staffed at all times 
during Project implementation with personnel adequate in numbers and 
having functions, experience and resources  satisfactory to the Bank with 
respect 
to 
the 
technical, 
environmental, 
community 
outreach, 
communications, administrative, legal and fiduciary activities needed for 
the implementation of the Project, all as  set forth in detail in the OM;   
 
(b)  
ensure an active and efficient collaboration, for purposes of Project 
implementation, among said MAVDT structures, departments and units, 
FONVIVIENDA, the prospective participating municipalities within the 
Borrower’s territory and all other Borrower’s agencies and entities listed 
in the OM; and  
 
(c)  
establish, not later than six months after the Effective Date, an 
independent validation team comprising competitively selected real 
estate experts in, inter alia, finance and development, and urban 
development and planning, to provide advisory support in respect of real 
estate transactions contemplated under the Project. 
 
D. 
Implementation Documents 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, has adopted an operational manual (the 
Operational Manual or OM) for the Project, dated November 18, 2010, 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth rules, methods, guidelines, standard 
documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter 
alia, the following: 
 
(a) 
(i) the detailed description of Project implementation activities, their 
sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks in relation 
thereto; and (ii) the detailed institutional arrangements in respect thereof;  
 
(b) 
the distinction between: (i) Subprojects-I and Subprojects-III, where 
Subproject Developers will be contracted to carry out the investments 
under Parts 1.B (i) and 1.B (iii) of the Project (respectively) and 
structuring agents will be contracted separately to carry out the technical 
assistance under Part 1.A of the Project; and (ii) Subprojects-II, where 
the contract with the Subproject Developer will include both, the 
- 10 - 
investments and the technical assistance required for such investments, 
as described in Part 1.B (ii) of the Project;  
 
(c) 
the Project’s administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial, 
procurement and disbursement procedures, including all pertinent 
standard documents and model contracts in relation thereto;  
 
(d) 
the eligibility criteria for Subprojects, including: (i) the rules for their 
selection, approval, implementation, monitoring and evaluation; and (ii) 
the exclusion from the Project of any Subprojects which, in the Bank’s 
opinion, would merit an Environmental Classification A under the 
Bank’s Operational Policy 4.01; 
 
(e) 
the timing and amounts of third-party guarantees and/or counterpart 
contributions required from Subproject Developers for each phase of 
Subprojects-I and Subprojects-II; 
 
(f) 
the EMF and SMF; 
 
(g) 
the guidelines and arrangements for the training and capacity building 
activities under the Project;  
 
(h) 
the final form of the interim unaudited financial reports and Financial 
Statements for the Project and the terms of reference for the technical, 
environmental and financial audits of the Project;  
 
(i) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project, including all 
technical, environmental, and social aspects in relation thereto; and 
 
(j) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall and shall cause FONVIVIENDA to 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the OM. 
 
3. 
In the event that any provision of the OM shall conflict with any provision under 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
4. 
The OM may only be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written 
consent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
E. 
Subprojects 
 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall and/or shall cause FONVIVIENDA to:  
 
1. 
agree to provide financing out of Loan proceeds for the carrying out of 
Subprojects in accordance with eligibility criteria, procedures and sequencing of 
activities, terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the 
Operational Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the following consecutive 
actions and procedures: 
 
(a) 
(i) the evaluation of prospective Subprojects shall be carried out by 
MAVDT; and (ii) the determination of Subprojects’ eligibility under the 
Project shall be made by MAVDT in consultation with municipal 
officials of a participating municipality within the Borrower’s territory 
using criteria specified in the Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
the selection and appointment, in compliance with relevant provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for each Subproject-I and 
Subproject-III, of a real estate development structuring agent responsible 
for the technical and financial preparation of said type of Subprojects; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
the selection and appointment (in accordance with the pertinent 
provisions of Section III of this Schedule), throughout the 
duration of each Subproject implementation,  of a Fiduciary 
Agent to manage all fiduciary aspects associated with Subproject 
implementation, pursuant to an agreement (the Fiduciary 
Contract) to be entered into between FONVIVIENDA and the 
pertinent Fiduciary Agent, under which the Fiduciary Agent 
shall, inter alia:  
 
(A)  
manage on behalf of FONVIVIENDA (pursuant to 
instructions from MAVDT), the contracting process (in 
accordance with the pertinent provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule) of the Subproject Developers for 
Subprojects-I and Subprojects-III, the independent 
technical supervisors and other technical functions 
associated with the development and implementation of 
Subprojects;  
 
(B)  
manage Project resources on behalf of FONVIVIENDA 
(pursuant to instructions from MAVDT) for the 
implementation of Part 1.B of the Project;  
 
(C) 
manage the fiduciary aspects of the real estate trust 
referred to in Part 1.A (i) and Part 1.B.(ii)(2) of the 
- 12 - 
Project on behalf of FONVIVIENDA,  Subproject 
Developers, and, in the case of Subprojects-I and 
Subprojects-II, of private landholders, pursuant to 
instructions from the relevant Fiduciary Committee;  
 
(D) 
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the respective 
Subprojects; and (2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s 
(through MAVDT) request, the obligation of each 
Fiduciary Agent responsible for the relevant Subproject 
to have such financial statements audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited 
to the Borrower and the Bank; and 
 
(E) 
carry out its obligations in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the OM and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; and 
 
(ii) 
the obligation of the Fiduciary Agent to:  (A) exercise its rights 
and carry out its obligations under the Fiduciary Contract in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, 
FONVIVIENDA, and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan; and (B) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce 
the Fiduciary Contract or any provision thereof; and 
 
(d) 
the selection and appointment, in compliance with relevant provisions of 
Section III of this Schedule, for each Subproject, of a Subproject 
Developer by the respective Fiduciary Agent on behalf of 
FONVIVIENDA (in the case of Subprojects-I and Subprojects-III) or by 
FONVIVIENDA (in the case of Subprojects-II), all in accordance with 
Section I.E.2 of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
extend financing to Subproject Developers responsible for the implementation of 
any given Subproject  pursuant to a Subproject Contract to be entered by and 
between the Fiduciary Agent on behalf of FONVIVIENDA (in the case of 
Subprojects-I and Subprojects-III), or by and between FONVIVIENDA (in the 
case of Subprojects-II), and the respective Subproject Developer (as specified in 
Section I.E.1 (d) of this Schedule), and having terms and conditions approved by 
the Bank, which shall include and provide, inter alia, the following:   
- 13 - 
(a)  
the financing shall be provided out of the proceeds of the Loan through 
Grants made to Subproject Developers to support the implementation of 
the respective Subprojects, such financing to be in an amount not to 
exceed 50 percent of the estimated market value of the low income 
housing solutions in any given Subproject-I and Subproject-II, or up to 
100 percent of the actual cost of any given Subproject-III, as described in 
detail in the OM. 
 
(b)  
rights adequate to protect the Borrower’s interests and those of the Bank 
shall be inserted therein, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate 
the right of the Subproject Developer to use the proceeds of the Grant, or 
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant then 
withdrawn, upon the Subproject Developer’s failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the respective Subproject Contract; and (ii) require 
each Subproject Developer to:  
 
(A) 
carry out its Subprojects with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the OM and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the 
Borrower;  
 
(B) 
when applicable, provide, promptly as needed, the resources 
required for the purpose;  
 
(C) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Bank, the progress of the Subprojects and the achievement of its 
objectives;  
 
(D) 
enable the Borrower (through MAVDT), FONVIVIENDA, and 
the Bank to inspect the Subprojects, its operation and any 
relevant records and documents, including providing the 
information necessary to carry out the audits referred to in 
Section I.E.1 (c) (i) (D) (2) of this Schedule; and 
 
(E) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower (through MAVDT), 
FONVIVIENDA, and the Bank all such information as the 
Borrower (through MAVDT), FONVIVIENDA or the Bank 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing; 
 
 
- 14 - 
3. 
ensure that the Fiduciary Agent’s (in the case of Subprojects-I and Subprojects-
III) or FONVIVIENDA’s (in the case of Subprojects-II) rights  under each 
Subproject Contract shall be exercised in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower (through MAVDT), FONVIVIENDA, and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the rights of the respective Fiduciary Agent or FONVIVIENDA (as the case may 
be) in any Subproject Contract or any of its provisions shall not be assigned, 
amended, abrogated or waived; 
 
4. 
ensure that  the following specific procedures shall be carried out in sequence for 
each Grant or portion thereof made  available to a Subproject Developer under 
any Subproject Contract: 
 
(a) 
before disbursing the first advance under any Subproject Contract, not to 
exceed 30 percent of the value of the same, the Borrower, through 
MAVDT, shall ensure that final bidding documents have been produced 
acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(b) 
before incurring in any eligible expenditure under a Subproject, the 
Borrower (through MAVDT) shall and/or shall cause FONVIVIENDA 
to ensure, as preliminary requirements thereof,  that: 
  
(i) 
each Subproject Contract shall have been duly entered into 
between the respective Fiduciary Agent, on behalf of 
FONVIVIENDA (in the case of Subprojects-I and Subprojects-
III), or between the FONVIVIENDA (in the case of Subprojects-
II), and a Subproject Developer and shall comprise various 
intermediate stages of implementation (not to exceed four stages 
in total) all of which shall identify pertinent eligible expenditures 
in connection with the implementation of each such stage, in 
accordance with terms and conditions set forth in the OM, 
including adequate environmental and social mitigation 
measures mandated by the EMF and SMF respectively; and 
 
(ii)  
a Fiduciary Agent for each Subproject-I and Subproject-III shall 
have been competitively selected and appointed with terms of 
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (as referred 
to in Section I.E.1 (c) of this Schedule), and, in the case of 
Subprojects-II, the procurement consultant referred to in Section 
IV.B.1 (c) (ii) of this Schedule has been competitively selected 
and appointed with terms of reference and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
 
- 15 - 
(c) 
as further specified in the Operational Manual, after the Bank shall 
receive evidence that the preliminary requirements mentioned in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) above have been complied with, the Borrower, 
through MAVDT, may, subject to the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, withdraw the proceeds 
of the Loan under Category (2) (as an advance) in an amount not 
exceeding the estimated value of the intermediate stage of the value of 
the underlying Subproject Contract, to allocate them for eligible 
expenditures related to the implementation of a Subproject Contract 
(such intermediate stage to be determined in accordance with the 
provisions of the OM), provided that in no case shall the amount of 
aggregate undocumented advances made to the Subproject Developer 
exceed 30 percent of the Bank-financed portion of the respective 
Subproject Contract; and thereafter; 
 
(d) 
as further detailed in the Operational Manual, before any subsequent 
withdrawal (after the initial withdrawal referred to in paragraph (a) 
above) can be made out of Loan proceeds, the Borrower, through 
MAVDT, shall ensure, as secondary requirements thereto,  that: 
 
(i) 
Grants-I and Grants-II shall not finance more than 80 percent of 
expenditures incurred during the implementation of any 
intermediate stage of a Subproject Contract; and 
 
(ii) 
any portion of the relevant Grant-I or Grant-II required prior to 
the implementation of any intermediate stage of the pertinent 
Subproject Contract and any portion of the financial 
contributions expected from Subproject Developers for the 
implementation of any stage of said Subproject Contract (as 
specified in more detail in the Operational Manual and in the 
terms and conditions of said Subproject Contract) shall be 
deposited with the Fiduciary Agent prior to any request for 
disbursement out of FONVIVIENDA’s fiduciary account 
managed by the Fiduciary Agent; and 
 
(e) 
as further detailed in the Operational Manual and as set forth in Section 
IV.B.1 (c) (ii) of this Schedule, before any withdrawal can be made out 
of Loan proceeds for Part 1.B (ii) (1) of the Project, the Borrower, 
through MAVDT, shall ensure that a Fiduciary Agent for each 
Subproject-II shall have been competitively selected and appointed with 
terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5. 
ensure that no more than fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of Loan proceeds 
allocated to Category (2) is used to finance Subprojects-III. 
 
- 16 - 
F. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
G. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the EMF and the SMF. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT shall,  prior to the start of the bidding process 
for any Subproject: (a) carry out, or cause to be carried out, an environmental 
screening/assessment of each of the relevant works, and if needed, as determined 
by the Bank, prepare and approve or cause to be prepared and approved, an 
environmental impact management plan or similar instrument, acceptable to the 
Bank, for each of said works (which management plan or similar instrument shall 
be based on the results of the relevant screening/assessment mentioned herein, 
and the Bank’s comments on the results of said screening/assessment, if any); 
and (b) immediately after the award of the contract for the relevant Subproject, 
implement and/or cause to be implemented, the corresponding environmental 
management plan or similar instrument in accordance with its terms, and in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
If as a result of the carrying out of the screening/assessment process mentioned in 
the preceding paragraph or at any time during the implementation of any works, 
it is determined by the Bank that any involuntary resettlement will be induced by 
or in respect of any given works under the Project, the Borrower, through 
MAVDT shall:  (a) prior to the commencement of any said works, prepare 
(and/or cause to be prepared) and furnish to the Bank, an impact management 
plan (acceptable to the Bank) which plan shall be based on the provisions of the 
SMF; and (b) immediately thereafter, implement and/or cause to be implemented 
(as the case may be) the corresponding impact management plan in accordance 
with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
When, in the Bank’s opinion, any activity under Part 2 of the Project may have 
implications on specific sites or when the recommendations resulting from said 
activities could affect environmentally or socially sensitive areas, the Borrower, 
through MAVDT shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies 
related to studies, technical assistance or capacity building under Part 2 of the 
Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that 
end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the 
Bank’s Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed 
through such technical assistance and capacity building activities. 
 
 
- 17 - 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall prepare and furnish, or shall cause to be 
prepared and furnished, to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall have the Financial Statements for the 
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of each audited period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
 
- 18 - 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions.  The Borrower shall: (a) supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 45 days after the 
Project has been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the Procurement Plan at 
least once a year, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual Project 
implementation needs and progress and supply the SEPA with the information 
contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions set 
forth in Annex A to this Schedule 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c)     International Competitive Bidding, subject to the provisions of paragraph 
3.13 (a) of the Procurement Guidelines in respect of Subprojects-I and 
Subprojects-II 
(d)   Direct Contracting  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.   
 
 
 
 
- 19 - 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  Except as otherwise 
indicated in the following table, the Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
(e) 
Single-source Selection 
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 20 - 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) Consultant Services for 
 
Part 1.A of the Project 
 
3,300,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, works and 
 
consultants’ services  for 
 
Subproject Contracts 
 
under Part 1.B of the 
 
Project  
 
34,700,000 
100% 
(3) Consultant services and 
 
Training for Part 2 of the 
 
Project 
 
500,000 
100% 
(4) Consultant’s services,  
 
goods, Training and 
 
Operating Costs for Part 
       3 of the Project 
 
1,500,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 4,000,000 
(four million Dollars) equivalent may be made for payments made prior 
to this date but on or after January 31, 2010 (but in no case more than 
one year prior to the date of this Agreement) for Eligible Expenditures; 
and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 21 - 
(c) 
under Category (2)  until:  
 
(i) 
in the case of Subprojects-I and Subprojects-III:  (A) a Fiduciary 
Agent for the respective Subproject  has been contracted by 
FONVIVIENDA; (B) the Fiduciary Agent for the respective 
Subproject has been assessed and found acceptable to the Bank 
with respect to its financial management capacity; and (C) the 
Subproject Contract with respect to said Subproject has been 
signed by the Fiduciary Agent on behalf of FONVIVIENDA and 
the respective Subproject Developer; and 
 
(ii) 
in the case of Subprojects-II:  (A) with respect to Part 1.B (ii) (2) 
of the Project, MAVDT has caused FONVIVIENDA to contract 
(in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule) a consultant, acceptable to the Bank to provide 
procurement support; (B) with respect to Part 1.B (ii) (1) of the 
Project: (1) the Fiduciary Agent for the respective Subproject has 
been assessed and found acceptable to the Bank with respect to 
its financial capacity; (2) the Fiduciary Agent for the respective 
Subproject has been contracted by FONVIVIENDA; and (C) the 
Subproject Contract with respect to said Subproject has been 
signed by FONVIVIENDA and the respective Subproject 
Developer. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
- 22 - 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Additional Provisions Relating to  
Particular Methods of Procurement 
 
Section I. 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated 
to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following 
additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be used, 
standard bidding documents, as approved by the Bank for bidding under the 
Project and incorporated in the Operational Manual (the “Standard Bidding 
Documents”). Any change or departure from the Standard Bidding Document 
approved by the Bank shall require its prior approval. 
 
(b) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or citizens of the 
Borrower’s territory, will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will 
be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders 
shall be allowed to submit their bids by hand or through the post office or private 
mailing services. There shall not be any requirement for any bidder to show 
evidence of the bidder's registration in any public registry, chamber of commerce 
or similar entity, whether in the Borrower’s territory or elsewhere, or to appoint a 
representative domiciled in Borrower’s territory, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract. 
 
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening 
shall coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the 
period for bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents. 
 
(d) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. 
Such determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, 
conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any 
factor additional to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid 
evaluation, such factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will 
be applied for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely 
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and 
- 23 - 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the 
bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction 
of arithmetic errors. 
- 24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February 
15, 2025. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 25 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Bank Safeguard Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and procedures 
set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under 
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual. 
3. 
“Beneficiary” or “Beneficiaries” means low-income households in selected 
municipalities of the Borrower’s territory which are deemed eligible for land and 
housing subsidies under  the Borrower’s Vivienda de Interés Social o Prioritaria 
criteria and procedures. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
6. 
“EMF” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Framework for 
Project execution dated October 20, 2009, prepared by the Borrower, through 
MAVDT, as approved by the Bank on October 23, 2009 and further revised on 
November 18, 2010, in which are recorded the objectives, policies, monitoring 
procedures, time schedules and other environmental provisions to mitigate 
adverse environmental effects arising exclusively from the implementation of the 
Project and each Subproject deriving therefrom and financed wholly or partially 
out of the proceeds of this Loan. 
7. 
“Fiduciary Agent” means a fiduciary agent contracted for a Subproject under a 
Fiduciary Contract. 
 
8. 
“Fiduciary Committee” means each committee comprising representatives of 
MAVDT, FONVIVIENDA, the respective Subproject Developer and all relevant 
parties to each real estate trust referred to in Part 1.A. (i) and Part 1.B.(ii) of the 
Project, which purposes are:  (i) to give specific instructions to the Fiduciary 
Agent with respect to said real estate trust; and (ii) to instruct the respective 
Fiduciary Agent on the execution and disbursements under Part 1.B. of the 
- 26 - 
Project, provided that in the case of decisions with respect to disbursement of 
Loan proceeds, FONVIVIENDA will have the sole authority to instruct the 
Fiduciary Agent to execute disbursements or payments to the respective 
Subproject Developer. 
 
9. 
“Fiduciary Contract” means any agreement referred to in Section I.E.1 (c) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“FONVIVIENDA” means Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda, the National Fund for 
Housing, a fund of the Borrower holding specific public assets or liquidity 
intended for promoting access to affordable housing by the Borrower’s lower 
income segment of its population housing, and governed by FONVIVIENDA’s 
Legislation. 
 
11. 
“FONVIVIENDA’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s decree No. 555 of March 
10, 2003, and modified by the Borrower’s Law No. 1151 of 2007. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
13. 
“Grants” means any or all of the Grants-I, Grants-II and Grants-III. 
 
14. 
“Grant-I” means a governmental investment subsidy made to a Subproject 
Developer under a Subproject Contract out of the proceeds of the Loan by the 
Fiduciary Agent on behalf of FONVIVIENDA and consisting of a transfer of 
financial resources to assist in defraying capital costs arising from the 
implementation of the Subprojects-I for selected Beneficiaries. 
 
15. 
“Grant-II” means a governmental investment subsidy made to a Subproject 
Developer under a Subproject Contract out of the proceeds of the Loan by 
FONVIVIENDA and consisting of a transfer of financial resources to assist in 
defraying capital costs arising from the implementation of the Subprojects-II for 
selected Beneficiaries. 
 
16. 
“Grant-III” means a governmental investment subsidy made to a Subproject 
Developer under a Subproject Contract out of the proceeds of the Loan by the 
Fiduciary Agent on behalf of FONVIVIENDA and consisting of a transfer of 
financial resources to assist in defraying capital costs arising from the 
implementation of the Subprojects-III for selected Beneficiaries. 
 
17. 
“MAVDT” means Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda, y Desarrollo Territorial, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, Housing and Regional Development, or 
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
- 27 - 
18. 
“Operating Costs” means in respect of Category (4), the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, including office equipment and 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, 
office administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs and 
salaries of locally contracted employees. 
 
19. 
“Operational Manual” or “OM” has the meaning given to it in Section I.D.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended, supplemented or 
otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank. 
 
20. 
“Pipeline of Subprojects” means the list of 27 low-income land and housing 
development subprojects identified in MAVDT’s letter to the Bank dated 
October 1, 2010 (Letter No. 3100-2-126016) as subprojects which have either 
been: (i) adopted; (ii) identified and determined; or (iii) announced and in 
structuring stage, as of March 5, 2010 and therefore not affected by the 
Borrower’s Constitutional Court Judgment C-149 of 2010. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 11, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
23. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
 
24. 
“SMF” means the Borrower’s Social Management Framework prepared by the 
Borrower, through MAVDT, on October 22, 2009 and approved by the Bank on 
October 23, 2009, as further revised on October 1, 2010 and November 18, 2010, 
in which are recorded the objectives, policies, monitoring procedures, time 
schedules and other social provisions to mitigate adverse social consequences 
arising exclusively from the implementation of the Project, including the 
implementation of each Subproject financed wholly or partially out of the 
proceeds of this Loan.  The SMF contains, inter alia:  (i) a Resettlement Policy 
Framework to address any unforeseen resettlement-related impacts under the 
Project ; and (ii) an Indigenous Peoples screening instrument to ensure that:  (a) 
any new construction supported under the Project will not take place in lands 
used or inhabited by, or of collective significance to, indigenous communities or 
in lands directly adjacent thereto; and (b) the Project provides equal access to 
Project benefits to different groups, regardless of ethnic or other status.   
 
- 28 - 
25. 
“Standard Bidding Documents” has the meaning given to it in clause (a) of 
Section I of Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Subprojects” means any or all of the Subprojects-I, Subprojects-II and 
Subprojects-III. 
 
27. 
“Subproject-I” means specific set of public-private investments under Part 1.B (i) 
of the Project for Beneficiaries in selected Borrower’s Municipalities, within the 
Pipeline of Subprojects, not exceeding 5,000 low income housing units, and 
determined eligible pursuant to the Operational Manual.  
 
28. 
“Subproject-II” means specific set of public-private investments and technical 
assistance under Part 1.B (ii) of the Project for Beneficiaries in selected 
Borrower’s Municipalities, within the Pipeline of Subprojects, not exceeding 
5,000 low income housing units, and determined eligible pursuant to the 
Operational Manual.  
 
29. 
“Subproject-III” means specific set of public investments under Part 1.B (iii) of 
the Project for Beneficiaries in selected Borrower’s Municipalities, within the 
Pipeline of Subprojects, not exceeding 5,000 low income housing units, and 
determined eligible pursuant to the Operational Manual.  
 
30. 
“Subproject Contract” means each agreement entered into between a Fiduciary 
Agent, on behalf of FONVIVIENDA (in the case of Subprojects-I and 
Subprojects-III) or directly by FONVIVIENDA (in the case of Subprojects-II) 
and a Subproject Developer for the management and carrying out of a Subproject 
under the Project (in the case of Subprojects-I and Subprojects-II) or for the 
carrying out of a Subproject under the Project (in the case of Subprojects-III), 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
 
31. 
“Subproject Developer” means any competitively selected developer responsible 
for the implementation of a Subproject under the Project, as referred to in Section 
I.E.1 (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in the understanding that in the case of 
Subprojects-III, any such competitively selected developer is a works contractor 
responsible for the implementation of specific works. 
 
32. 
“Training” means in respect of Categories (3) and (4): (i) reasonable travel, 
room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in 
connection with their training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) 
course fees; (iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, 
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses. 
 
 
 
 
- 29 - 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 30 - 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
