 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8033-TR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Additional Loan for Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness 
Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
Dated August 4, 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 8033-TR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated August 4, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and nine million eight 
hundred thousand Euro (€109,800,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 2 - 
 
 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the ISPA in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV —TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
- 3 - 
 
 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is Undersecretary of Treasury.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Basbakanlik 
Hazine Mustesarligi 
Inonu Bulvari 
Emek-Ankara 
Turkey  
 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(90) (312) 204-7366 
(90) (312) 204 7367 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
 
 
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Evren Dilekli 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Florian Fichtl 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project  is to assist the Borrower in improving the city of 
Istanbul’s preparedness for a potential earthquake, through enhancing the institutional 
and technical capacity for disaster management and emergency response, strengthening 
critical public facilities for earthquake resistance, and supporting measures for better 
enforcement of building codes. 
 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project with Parts A.3 and B.1 being 
modified to read as follows:  
 
Part A:  Enhancing Emergency Preparedness 
 
“3. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Provincial Directorate for 
Disaster and Emergency Management by providing support to develop its 
organizational capacity, operational plans and procedures.”  
 
Part B:  Seismic Risk Mitigation for Priority Public Facilities 
 
“1. 
Retrofitting or reconstruction of priority public facilities, including 
hospitals, clinics, schools, administrative buildings, student dormitories, social 
service facilities and infrastructure.” 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the ISPA to maintain the IPCU throughout Project 
implementation under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and with 
sufficient and suitable human, financial and technical resources.   
 
2. 
The IPCU shall have the overall responsibility for day-to-day Project 
implementation, including: 
 
 
(a) 
preparation of work programs and budgets under the Project; 
 
 
(b) 
coordination of the Project activities with different ministries and 
agencies; 
 
 
(c) 
management of Project financial arrangements;  
 
 
(d) 
ensuring preparation of bidding and contract documents in accordance 
with agreed procurement procedures and management of procurement 
procedures under the Project; 
 
 
(e) 
supervision of implementation of work programs under the Project; and 
 
 
(f) 
preparation and furnishing to the Bank of progress reports on Project 
implementation prepared in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the ISPA, maintain the Project Steering Committee 
throughout the implementation of the Project to provide inter-agency 
coordination, oversight and policy guidance for overall implementation of the 
Project. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruptions Guidelines issued by the Bank on October 15, 
2006, and revised in January 2011, which are applicable to all IBRD loans and 
IDA credits and grants. 
 
- 7 - 
 
 
 
B. 
Project Implementation Protocols 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out the Project, make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the ISPA under a Project Implementation 
Protocol to be entered into between the Undersecretariat of Treasury and the 
ISPA, in accordance the Republic of Turkey Council of Minister’s Decree 
Number 2011/1410 dated February 8, 2011, concerning financing of the Istanbul 
Seismic Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Project.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project Implementation Protocol 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
3. 
For the purpose of coordinating Project activities, the Borrower, through the 
ISPA, shall enter into protocols with the relevant public agencies and maintain 
such protocols throughout the implementation of the Project.   
 
C. 
Safeguards.   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the ISPA, shall: (a) ensure that all measures for the 
carrying out of the EMP shall be taken in a timely manner; and (b) furnish to the 
Bank in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank adequate information 
on the carrying out of such measures. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the ISPA, shall obtain the Bank’s no-objection for each 
public facility to be reconstructed under Part B.1 of the Project. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the ISPA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period specified in paragraph 2 of this 
Section II.A and shall be furnished to the Bank on the dates specified in the same 
paragraph.   
 
2. 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 of this Section II.A, the Borrower, through the 
ISPA, shall: 
 
(a) 
for each calendar year of Project implementation, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) not later than August 31, a proposed annual work program 
and the budget, which shall discuss, inter alia, planned activities and 
expenditures during the next year; and (ii) not later than March 31 and 
 
- 8 - 
 
 
September 30, a Project Report covering implementation of the Project 
during the preceding six (6) month period; and 
 
(b) 
for each calendar year of Project implementation; (i) review with the 
Bank and thereafter adopt, not later than November 30, the annual work 
program and the budget for the next calendar year, taking into account 
the Bank’s recommendations; and (ii) carry out semi-annual reviews, 
together with the Bank and other relevant third parties, of the progress in 
the implementation of the Project during the preceding six (6) month 
period, and thereafter, take all measures required to carry out the 
measures resulting from the recommendations agreed upon by the Bank 
to ensure the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the six (6) month period following such date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the ISPA, shall maintain a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through ISPA, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the calendar quarter, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the ISPA, shall have the Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.  All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
 
- 9 - 
 
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and non-consulting 
services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consulting services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions set 
forth in the Annex to this Schedule. 
(b) Shopping  
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
 
Logistical and organizational services for training shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding or Shopping 
procedures. Training activities in the form of study tours, or participating in 
national or international workshops and training programs shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures agreed with the Bank 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 10 - 
 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single-source Selection 
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
- 11 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Works, goods and 
Technical Services 
 
98,100,000 
 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ services 
and Training 
 
9,510,000 
 
100% 
(3) Incremental Operating 
Costs 
 
2,190,000 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
109,800,000 
 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred to 
finance the reasonable and necessary incremental expenses incurred by 
the Borrower, through the IPCU, including staff salaries (excluding 
salaries of government employees) on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring;  
 
(b) 
the term “Technical Services” means services for conducting 
topographical and geological surveys, preparation of maps and other 
services to be conducted under the Project on the basis of performance of 
measurable physical outputs; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means expenditures incurred to finance the cost of 
workshops, and related travel expenditures, accommodation and per 
diem allowances provided to the participants and trainers in such 
training, including the fees for trainers. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made from the Loan Account until: 
 
(a) 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; and 
 
(b) 
the Project Implementation Protocol has been executed in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of Section I.B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
- 13 - 
 
 
 
Annex to 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts 
Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
 
The Borrower shall use the Bank’s Europe and Central Asia Region National 
Competitive Bidding documents template for goods and works and apply the following 
provisions in the carrying out of National Competitive Bidding procedures under the 
Project: 
 
A. 
Eligibility 
 
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders.  No restriction shall be 
applied to foreign bidders who wish to submit a bid. 
 
B. 
Procedures 
 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Official Gazette or in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper or in an electronic portal of free 
access allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids. 
 
C. 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications 
 
In the procurement of goods and works, where pre-qualification is not used, the 
qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be 
assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and 
financial requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents 
and which shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through use of a merit 
point system. 
 
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises 
 
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Turkey shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and 
financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent 
agency of the Government.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
 
- 14 - 
 
 
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures 
 
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint 
venture partners will be jointly and severally liable under the contract. 
 
F. 
Bidding Documents 
 
Procuring entities shall use the Bank’s sample National Competitive Bidding 
documents for Europe and Central Asia Region for works and goods and shall 
draft contract and conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank. 
 
G. 
Bid Evaluation 
 
(a) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point 
system shall not be used. 
 
(b) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be requested without the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
(c) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(d)  
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 
H. 
Price Adjustment 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e., more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
I. 
Rejection of All Bids 
 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
written concurrence. 
 
J. 
Contracts 
 
All contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by authorized signatories of 
the purchaser and the supplier and shall contain identical terms and conditions of 
contract to those included in the tender documents.  
 
- 15 - 
 
 
 
K.  
Securities 
 
Bid Securities should not exceed 3% (three percent) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; Performance Securities not more than 10% (ten percent). No advance 
payments shall be made to the Suppliers without a suitable Advance Payment 
security. The wording of all such securities shall be included in the bidding 
documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
- 16 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
 
Beginning February 15, 2017  
 
through August 15, 2040 
 
 
 
2.04% 
 
On February 15, 2041 
 
2.08% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
- 17 - 
 
 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
 
- 18 - 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated February 24, 2005 and 
amended on December 3, 2010, acceptable to the Bank, describing the 
environmental and cultural heritage mitigation, monitoring and institutional 
measures for the Project. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
6. 
“Governorship of Istanbul” means the Borrower’s Governorship of Istanbul.   
 
7. 
“IPCU” means the Istanbul Project Coordination Unit established within the 
ISPA for overall Project implementation and supervision.   
 
8. 
“Istanbul Special Provincial Administration” and “ISPA” mean the Special 
Provincial Administration of Istanbul operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law 
No. 5302, dated March 4, 2005. 
 
9. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement for the Istanbul Seismic 
Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Project between the Borrower and 
the Bank dated October 18, 2005 (Loan 4784-TU), as amended. 
 
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 of the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 3, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
 
- 19 - 
 
 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
 
13. 
“Project Implementation Protocol” means the protocol to be entered between the 
Undersecretariat of Treasury and the Special Provincial Administration in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Section I.B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee established to oversee 
Project implementation and provide policy guidance.  
 
15. 
“Provincial Directorate for Disaster and Emergency Management” means the 
Provincial Directorate for Disaster and Emergency Management established on 
December 17, 2009, by High Commission for Disasters and Emergencies to 
succeed Disaster Management Center that was established on January 1, 2000, 
under the Governorship of Istanbul responsible for disaster management. 
 
