CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 7956-PK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Karachi Port Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 24, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7956-PK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated January 24, 2011, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifteen million eight 
hundred thousand Dollars ($115,800,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when 
due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the 
2
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in 
Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or un-withdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for this purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall provide policy and strategic orientation to the Project 
through the Ministry of Ports and Shipping and cause the Project to be carried out 
by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV   
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(b) 
The Accounting Policies and Procedures Manuals referred to in 
Section II.B.2 (a) (i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement have been 
updated and adopted as updated by the Project Implementing Entity in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of the Economic Affairs Division 
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, or any of the Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or Section Officer in said Division, 
acting individually. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
 
Islamabad 
 
Pakistan 
4
Phone:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-51-921-0629  
92-51-921-8976 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By/s/ Sibtain Fazal Halim 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Raja Rehan Arshad 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to replace lost port capacity and reduce shipping 
costs to the Borrower’s economy through the reconstruction of failed berths at Karachi 
port, an increase in the effectiveness and efficiency of the operations of Karachi port, and 
enhancement of its environmental sustainability. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Berth Reconstruction
Reconstruction of failed berths on the east wharf of Karachi Port and associated 
construction: 
(a) 
Reconstruction of berths 15-17A, including reconstruction and extension 
of quay walls and construction of a general cargo and roll on-roll off 
berth. 
(b) 
Demolition of ship repair berths 1 and 2 and associated shed. 
(c) 
Construction of pavements and storage facilities. 
(d) 
Independent technical supervision of works under Part 1 (a), (b), and (c) 
of the Project. 
2. 
Institutional Strengthening
(a)  
(i)  
preparation of a five (5)-year business plan and a strategic 
development plan for the Project Implementing Entity for 
purposes 
of 
definition 
of 
future 
orientation, 
physical 
development of assets, and territorial management, including a 
traffic analysis and forecast, strategies favoring or disfavoring 
particular traffic types, a qualitative and quantitative human 
resource assessment for purposes of development of a targeted 
training program, a review of the operational and institutional 
framework of the Project Implementing Entity, definition of the 
type and modus of land use under its custody and zoning of such 
land, identification of opportunities for modification of the legal 
and regulatory framework of the Project Implementing Entity for 
6
purposes of its transition to a regulatory role, and strengthening 
and institutionalization of dialogue with port users and the 
broader port community; and 
(ii)  
provision of support to the Project Implementing Entity in 
relation to Project management, implementation, and monitoring 
and 
evaluation, 
particularly 
with 
respect 
to 
contract 
management. 
(b)  
Design and implementation of an environmental management system, 
including policies and objectives, impacts and risks and a related 
mitigation and improvement program, an organizational structure for 
implementation of such program, and arrangements for the monitoring 
and evaluation of such program, for the carrying out of a structured 
performance improvement program for purposes of international 
certification of the Project Implementing Entity in the area. 
(c) 
Carrying out of a financial management and planning improvement 
program for the Project Implementing Entity for purposes of financial 
reporting in accordance with international standards in the area. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
Ministry of Ports and Shipping
The Borrower shall provide policy and strategic orientation to the Project through 
the Ministry of Ports and Shipping. 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity 
(“Subsidiary Agreement”), in accordance with the Borrower’s on-lending 
policies and procedures, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, and 
which shall include the following obligations of the Project Implementing Entity: 
(a) 
(i) payment to the Borrower of a front-end fee in an amount equal to the 
 
Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.03 of this 
 
Agreement; (ii) repayment to the Borrower of the proceeds of the Loan 
 
over the period applicable to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.06 of 
 
this Agreement; and (iii) payment to the Borrower of interest on the 
 
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
 
a rate of eight percent (8%) per annum. 
(b) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
(c) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Accounting Policies and Procedures Manuals, and not, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, assign, amend, abrogate, or 
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof; 
8
(d) 
to ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and services required for 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
of this Schedule, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan; and 
(e) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Environmental Management Plan, and not, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree in writing, assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or 
permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the budgetary procedures of the Borrower and 
the provisions of this Agreement, including such additional instructions as the 
Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A.1 
of this Schedule, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern. 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree 
in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to 
be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any 
provision thereof. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Manuals 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the 
Accounting Policies and Procedures Manuals; and (ii) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be 
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision 
thereof. 
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of such Manuals and 
those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern. 
9
E. 
Midterm Review 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity, no 
later than thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, a midterm review 
to assess the status of Project implementation, as measured against the 
performance indicators referred to in Section II.A.1 (a) of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Such review shall include an assessment of 
the following: (i) overall progress in implementation; (ii) results of 
monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) implementation of annual work 
plans and budgets; (iv) progress on procurement and disbursement;   
 
(v) 
progress 
on 
implementation 
of 
safeguards 
measures; 
(vi) implementation arrangements; and  (vii) the need to make any 
adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds  to improve performance. 
 
(b) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Bank, at least three (3) months before such review, a 
report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, needed to undertake 
the review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of the said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(c)  
review, jointly with the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Borrower and the Bank’s views 
on the matter. 
 
Section II. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
To this end, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Policies and Procedures 
10 
 
Manuals; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, 
amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or 
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be: (a) furnished to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period; and (b) made 
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
11 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set out in the 
Annex to this Schedule 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least-Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-Source Selection 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods or works procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding, or Direct Contracting; (b) the first contract for goods procured on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding and Shopping, respectively; (c) the first 
contract for works procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; (d) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm procured on the basis 
of Single-Source Selection; (e) the first contract for consultants’ services 
12 
 
provided a firm, irrespective of its value, and thereafter all contracts for 
consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and 
(f) the first contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual 
consultant, irrespective of its value, and thereafter all contracts for consultants’ 
services provided by an individual consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, works, 
consultants’ services 
(including for audits), and 
Training for the Project  
 
98,800,000 
100 
(2) Front-end Fee 
 
      289,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(3) Premiums for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest Rate 
0
Amounts payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (c) of this 
13 
 
Collars 
 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(4) Interest during 
construction 
 
3,000,000 
Amounts payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (c) of the 
General Conditions until 
June 30, 2015 
 
(5) Unallocated 
  13,710,500 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
115,800,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
Section V. 
Access to Information
The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any information related to the 
Legal Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to information, in 
effect at the time of such disclosure. 
 
14 
 
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Procedures 
 
The additional procedures set out below shall apply to the procurement of goods 
and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, in 
order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the 
provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said 
Guidelines.  In the event of a conflict between the Borrower’s procedures and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, said paragraphs shall 
govern, including the following: 
 
(i) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of bids;  
(ii) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee;  
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;  
(iv) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;  
(v) 
Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;  
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;  
(vii) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior written agreement of the Bank;  
(viii) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior written 
agreement shall be obtained;  
(ix) 
Bids shall be solicited and works contracts shall be awarded on the basis 
of unit prices;  
(x) 
Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated 
rates;  
(xi) 
Single bids shall also be considered for award; 
(xii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder;  
15 
 
(xiii) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders; 
(xiv) 
Draft contracts shall be reviewed by the Bank in accordance with prior 
review procedures; 
(xv) 
State-owned enterprises shall be eligible to bid only if they can establish 
that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower; 
(xvi) 
A firm declared ineligible by the Bank, based on a determination by the 
Bank that the firm has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, 
coercive, or obstructive practices in competing for or in executing a 
Bank-financed contract, shall be ineligible to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract during the period of time determined by the Bank; 
(xvii) The Bank shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated 
period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time 
determines that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in 
competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by the Bank; and 
 
(xviii) Each contract financed from the proceeds of a Loan shall provide that the 
suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its 
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance 
of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank.  The deliberate and material violation by the 
supplier, contractor, or subcontractor of such provision may amount to an 
obstructive practice. 
16 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each January 15 and July 15, 
 
Beginning July 15, 2018 
 
through January 15, 2038 
 
2.44 
On July 15, 2038 
 
2.40 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
17 
 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
18 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Accounts Division” means the division of the Project Implementing Entity (as 
hereinafter defined), responsible for accounts, or any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“Accounting Policies and Procedures Manuals” means the Project Implementing 
Entity’s manuals, dated 1961, 1963, May 1982, and September 1985, and setting 
out financial management and disbursement arrangements for purposes of the 
Project implementing entity’s operations, as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any 
annexes or schedules to such manuals. 
 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
5. 
“Economic Affairs Division” means the division of the Ministry of Economic 
Affairs and Statistics (as hereinafter defined), responsible for economic affairs, or 
any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s 
plan, dated May 10, 2010 and agreed with the Bank, setting out mitigation, 
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building 
through training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to 
be implemented under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable 
levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to 
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any 
schedules or annexes to such plan. 
 
7. 
“Finance Division” means the division of the Project Implementing Entity (as 
hereinafter defined), responsible for finance, or any successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means the 12-month period from January 1 to December 31; 
provided, however, that, in the case of the first Fiscal Year of the Project (“First 
Fiscal Year”), such period shall run from the date of this Agreement to the 
December 31 next following. 
19 
 
9. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
10. 
“Internal Audit Division” means the division of the Project Implementing Entity 
(as hereinafter defined), responsible for internal audits, or any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Karachi Port Trust” means the trust in which is vested the port of Karachi, 
established and operating pursuant to the Karachi Port Trust Act of 1886. 
 
12. 
“Marine Pollution Control Department” means the department of the Project 
Implementing Entity (as hereinafter defined), under the Operations Division (as 
hereinafter defined), responsible for marine pollution control, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
13. 
“Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics” means the Borrower’s ministry 
responsible for economic affairs and statistics, or any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“Ministry of Ports and Shipping” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for 
ports and shipping, or any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures under 
the Project, incurred by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity for 
purposes of Project implementation, management, and monitoring and 
evaluation, on account of utilities and supplies, bank charges, communications, 
vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and 
equipment maintenance, public awareness-related publicity and media expenses, 
travel and subsistence, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff. 
 
16. 
“Operations Division” means the division of the Project Implementing Entity (as 
hereinafter defined), responsible for operations, or any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“Planning and Development Division” means the division of the Project 
Implementing Entity (as hereinafter defined), responsible for planning and 
development, or any successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity (as hereinafter 
defined)’s procurement plan for the Project, dated July 30, 2010 and referred to 
20 
 
in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Karachi Port Trust, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
21. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Karachi Port 
Trust Act of 1886, as amended to date, and includes any other laws and 
regulations governing the organization, reorganization, restructuring, and 
operations of the Project Implementing Entity, as any of them may be amended 
or supplemented from time to time. 
 
22. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
23. 
“Training” means the cost of training financed under the Project, and attributable 
to seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with the cost of travel and 
subsistence for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training 
facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities 
directly related to course preparation and implementation. 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining un-withdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
21 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and / or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity has engaged 
in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
22 
 
Section III. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows: 
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5 (a), and a new Section 5 (b) is added to 
read as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with the Bank’s prevailing sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn 13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual, or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period 
of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual, or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier, or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
23 
 
Footnotes:
“13. 
An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s 
sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or 
early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or 
following a sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross-
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or 
individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14.  
Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or 
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government-owned enterprises 
and agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8 (b) of the Procurement 
Guidelines or participate under paragraph 1.11 (c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15.  
The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board set forth 
the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an 
internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by 
other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s 
website and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.”
 
