  
  
  
  
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8021-HR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(European Union Natura 2000 Integration Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated February 22, 2011 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
LOAN NUMBER 8021-HR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated February 22, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million and eight hundred 
thousand Euro (EURO 20,800,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 2 - 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MOC in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
  
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Katančićeva 5 
10000 Zagreb 
Republic of Croatia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
862-21215 
 
(385-1) 4922-598 
                                                            862-21833 
 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 3 - 
AGREED at Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Martina Dalic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Petter Harrold 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) support Park and County Public 
Institutions to implement Natura 2000 objectives in investment programs; (ii) strengthen 
capacity for EU-compliant reporting and biodiversity monitoring; and (iii) introduce 
programs that involve a wider group of stakeholders in Natura 2000 network 
management. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I: Ecological Network Investments 
 
(i) 
Provision of works, goods, consultants’ services for supporting selected 
protected area and national ecological network site driven investments in order to help 
demonstrate and strengthen integration of Natura 2000 objectives. 
 
(ii) 
Purchasing the necessary fire prevention equipment for coastal nature 
and national parks, as identified in the POM, and priority technical equipment for MOC 
and its nature related institutions.  
 
Part II: Ecological Network Data Systems 
 
 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services for: strengthening SINP capacity to 
help plan, prioritize, and organize biological inventory and populate data systems to 
fulfill the EU reporting requirements; carrying out of field work to perform biological 
inventory of species and habitat mapping and monitoring services; consultant services to 
harmonize data systems with a central geo-portal to meet EU INSPIRE Directive 
requirements; and provision of computer hardware and software upgrades.  
 
Part III: Ecological Network Capacity Building 
 
 
 
(i) 
Assistance for development of agri-environment measures for Natura 
2000 sites designed to: (a) establish the minimum criteria for cross-compliance relating to 
Natura 2000 sites; (b) develop an efficient and effective inspection system for adherence 
to cross-compliance; (c) develop additional conservation measures for habitats and 
species of European interest; and (d) develop the methodology for calculating the agri-
environment payment levels. 
 
(ii) 
Improving protected areas border delineations, through organizing a pilot 
program at two selected protected areas.  
 
(iii) 
Introducing and developing a Park Volunteer Program. 
- 5 - 
(iv) 
Assessment of various financing mechanisms for protected areas and 
improvement of systems to track and diversify protected areas financing. 
 
(v) 
Supporting a program for long-term and continuous training of protected 
areas civil servant staff on access to EU grant programs for nature protection and tools to 
improve park management; learning through study tours and seminars; a public 
information campaign; and re-design and implement the MOC ranger training program. 
 
(vi) 
Project management, including support for the financial management and 
procurement functions, monitoring and evaluation. 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOC, shall assign the overall oversight and 
implementation of the Project to the Nature Protection Directorate (NPD). 
2.  
The Borrower shall ensure that MOC carries out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the POM and the EMF, and shall not amend, waive or abrogate any 
provisions of the POM or EMF without the Bank’s prior approval. 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain, during and until the completion of the Project, the 
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) chaired by the State Secretary for Nature 
Protection of MOC and formed, as described in the MOC Decision no. 612-07/09-44/3 
dated November 26, 2009, by representatives from different government bodies, a 
representative of civil society and representatives of the State Institute for Nature 
Protection, the National Parks, Nature Parks, and County Public Institutions. The PCC 
shall be responsible for: (i) monitoring and supervising implementation of Project 
activities; (ii) coordination of Project activities with program activities of institutions 
represented in the PCC, and (iii) exchange of information.  
4. 
The Borrower, through MOC, shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), located within the Department for Strategic 
Planning in Nature Conservation and European Integration (DSPNCEI) under the NPD, 
and ensure that the PIU functions at all times in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The 
PIU shall report to a Project Director who is the head of NPD and it shall be comprised of 
a full time project coordinator, full time procurement specialist, full time financial 
management specialist, a full time specialist in economics and monitoring and evaluation. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through MOC, shall maintain, until completion of the Project, a 
Project Support Unit (PSU) within the State Institute for Nature Protection (SINP) to 
provide the MOC with expertise knowledge, information for planning and procurement, 
and to actively help with implementation of tasks under Part II of the Project.  The PSU 
shall be lead by the Director of SINP and shall consist of SINP experts. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
- 7 - 
C. 
Safeguards 
1.  
The Borrower shall implement the Project activities in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Framework (EMF) and shall conduct the activities described 
in Schedule 1, Part I in accordance with the EMF and the specific site EMPs adopted for 
each investment site involving civil works. 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prior to tendering of works for investments to be 
financed under Part I of the Project, develop and adopt site specific EMPs for each of the 
respective site in accordance with the template incorporated in the EMF; (b) disclose 
such EMPs and conduct proper consultations in accordance with the EMF; and (c) carry 
out the Project activities under Part I in accordance with the EMF and the respective 
EMP. 
3. 
The Borrower shall conduct the activities described in Schedule 1, Part I in 
accordance with the Ecological Network Impact Assessment (or Appropriate 
Assessment). 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower, through MOC, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing 
with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under the Preparation 
Advance for the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
- 8 - 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period and made 
publicly available in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
- 9 - 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedure. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures stipulated in the 
Annex to this Schedule 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
- 10 - 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality Based Selection 
 
(b) 
Fixed Budget Selection  
 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultant Qualification  
 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
 
(f) 
Selection of Individual Consultants under procedures set forth in paragraphs 
5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines  
 
(g) 
Sole-source selection of individual consultants 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
- 11 - 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
  
(1) Goods, Works, Consultants’ 
      Services, Training, and  
      Operating Costs for the  
      Project 
 
 
20,339,000 
 
100% 
(2) Refund of the Preparation 
     Advance 
                409,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(3) Front-end Fee 
                  52,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
20,800,000 
 
 
 
3. 
For the purpose of this Schedule, the terms: (i) “Training” means expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower for activities under Part III of the Project, such as trainer 
honoraria; hotel, transport, travel, and per diems for trainees; and study tour expenses; 
and (ii) “Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower on account of 
the Project implementation for office supplies, utilities, bank charges, communication 
tools, advertisement fees, translation and interpretation services, transportation, insurance 
for goods and salaries for PIU staff, including qualified social charges, but excluding 
salaries for the Borrower’s civil servants. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed Euro five hundred 
thousand (EUR 500,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after December 15, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2016. 
 
- 12 - 
Annex to Schedule 2 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding 
 
For the purposes of following National Competitive Bidding procedures in the 
procurement of goods, services (other than consultants’ services) and works to be 
financed under the Loan, the following modifications and additions shall apply: 
 
(i) 
Procedures 
 
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts.  Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Narodne Novine) and in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper or on the website of the Ministry of Culture, 
allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(ii) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises 
 
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower’s territory 
shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the Bank’s 
satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
laws and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower’s government.  Said enterprises 
shall be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(iii) 
Bidding Documents 
 
 
The Borrower shall use appropriate bidding documents that are acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
(iv) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation 
 
(1) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened 
simultaneously at the public bid opening. 
 
(2) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  The name of the bidder, the total amount of each bid 
and any discounts offered shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes 
of the public bid opening. 
 
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point 
system shall not be used. 
 
- 13 - 
(4) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be granted without the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
 
(5) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(6) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 
(v) 
Price Adjustment 
 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g., more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
 
(vi) 
Rejection of All Bids 
 
(1) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior written concurrence. 
 
(2) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding shall not 
be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(vii) 
Securities 
 
 
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; and performance securities not more than ten percent (10%).  No advance 
payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security.  The 
wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
 
On each May 15and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2016  
 
through November 15, 2030 
 
 
3.33% 
 
 
On November 15, 2030 
 
3.43% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
- 15 - 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
  
- 16 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
“DSPNCEI” means the Department for Strategic Planning in Nature 
Conservation and European Integration established under Nature Protection 
Directorate (as hereinafter defined) of MOC (as hereinafter defined).  
 
5. 
“Ecological Network Impact Assessment (or Appropriate Assessment)” means 
the assessment of any plan or program proposed to ascertain its implications for a 
Natura 2000 site in view of the site’s conservation objectives in line with 
requirements of Article 6(3) of the EU Habitats Directive no. 92/43/EEC dated 
May 21, 1992. 
 
6. 
“EMF” means the Environmental Management Framework prepared by the 
Borrower for the benefit of the Project that identifies and assesses the Project’s 
potential environmental impacts, shortly describes the Project, provides 
information about legislative and institutional framework for the Project 
implementation, defines the general contest of the site specific EMPs, describes 
the consultation with the public process, identifies six subproject groups 
(buildings, tracks / paths, buildings and paths, caves, sea investments – 
anchoring, and other), and for those groups identifies the potential environmental 
impacts and mitigation measures during construction and operation phase.  
 
7. 
“EMPs” means Environmental Management Plans developed or to be developed 
for each investment site involving civil works, in accordance with the sample 
presented in the EMF, which includes appropriate environmental monitoring and 
mitigation plans and up-dated provisions regarding construction permit 
requirements. 
 
8. 
“EU” means the European Union. 
 
- 17 - 
9. 
“EU INSPIRE Directive” means the Directive no. 2007/2/EC of the European 
Parliament and the Council dated March 14, 2007 regarding Infrastructure for 
Spatial Data Information in the European Communities.  
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010.  
 
11. 
“MOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Culture or any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“Natura 2000” means the European Union network of nature conservation areas 
established under the EU Habitats Directive no. 92/43/EEC dated May 21, 1992. 
 
13. 
“NPD” means the Nature Protection Directorate established within MOC. 
 
14. 
“Park and County Public Institutions” means the Borrower’s public institutions 
for management of national parks and nature parks and other protected areas, as 
well as for management of the ecological network. 
 
15. 
“Park Volunteer Program” means a program for introduction of volunteers in the 
nature protection system focused on strengthening capacities of institutions for 
development of volunteer programs and management of volunteers, and pilot and 
educate the first volunteers. 
 
16. 
“PCC” means Project Coordination Committee as established through a MOC 
Decision No.612-07/09-44/3 dated November 26, 2009. 
 
17. 
“POM” means the Project Operation Manual prepared by the Borrower and 
satisfactory to the Bank, referring to in paragraph I.A.2 of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement, setting forth the operational and administrative responsibilities, 
procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project, and including the 
Environmental 
Management 
Framework, 
and 
financial 
management 
arrangements for the Project, as the same may be amended and supplemented 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval. 
 
18. 
“PIU” means Project Implementation Unit of the Borrower. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 1, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
- 18 - 
21. 
“PSU” means the Borrower’s Project Support Unit within the SINP, consisting of 
experts working in direct support to the Project activities related to SINP, as 
referred to in Schedule 2, Section I.A.5 in this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“SINP” means the Borrower’s State Institute for Nature Protection or any 
successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“Structural Funds” means a European Union Grant Program for eligible EU 
Member States comprised of the European Regional Development Fund and 
European Social Fund. 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
- 19 - 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
