 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8052-CN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(JiTuHun Railway Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 5, 2011 
  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 5, 2011, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such 
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable 
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
 
- 2 - 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread;  and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Railways in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
 
- 3 - 
Facsimile:  
 
86-10-6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Zhang Wencai 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
- 4 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to respond to existing and anticipated transport 
demand along the Jilin-Hunchun corridor by providing increased capacity for freight and 
passengers, and faster travel time and increased frequency of services for passengers. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following part, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A: Railway Line between Jilin and Hunchun 
 
 
Construction of a double-track, electrified, passenger-dedicated high-speed rail 
line of about 360 km between the cities of Jilin and Hunchun and through the 
city of Tumen (JiTuHun) in Jilin Province, and the construction of eight new 
stations, including the upgrading of the rail line between Jilin station and 
Longtanshan station. 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangement 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways: 
 
(a) 
construct the railway lines under the Project through the Preparation 
Group, including installing the equipment  in accordance with: 
 
 
(i) 
arrangements and a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
 
(ii) 
appropriate technical standards, practices, and specifications; and 
 
 
(b) 
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project:  
 
(i) 
the Preparation Group with adequate powers, functions, staff and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank in order to enable it to 
implement the construction of the railway lines under the Project 
and to ensure the implementation of the RAP Arrangement; and 
 
(ii) 
FCTIC with adequate powers, functions, staff and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank in order to enable it to carry out 
procurement and financial management with respect to the 
Project and to supervise the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, and through the Ministry of Railways as appropriate:  
(a) take all necessary actions, including provision of timely consents and 
approvals, to facilitate the implementation of the Project; and (b) maintain all 
relevant records and documents related to the Project and provide promptly such 
documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested by 
the Bank from time to time. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways, cause the Province: (a) to 
provide full support, cooperation and assistance, and to take all necessary actions, 
including provision of timely consents and approvals, as may be required for 
facilitating the implementation of the Project and to enable the Borrower to 
comply with its undertakings in this Agreement; and (b) to maintain all relevant 
records and documents related to the Project and provide promptly such 
documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested by 
the Borrower or the Bank from time to time. 
 
4. 
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, and through the Ministry of 
Railways as appropriate, implement and cause the Province to implement the 
 
 
- 6 - 
Project in accordance with the Safeguards Instruments, all in a manner and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. Without limitation to the foregoing, the 
Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways and the Province as 
appropriate: 
 
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or 
permanently, and the displacement of said people in the carrying out of 
the Project or any part thereof;  
 
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of people is 
unavoidable, before initiating the implementation of any works which 
would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to such 
Displaced Persons compensation and, as applicable, relocate and 
rehabilitate the Displaced Persons in accordance with the RAP and the 
RAP Arrangement and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(c) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, fail to enforce, or waive the Safeguards 
Instruments or any provisions thereof without the prior written 
concurrence of the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
monitor on a six (6) monthly basis, the implementation of the Safeguards 
Instruments, including the status of compliance thereof, in a manner and 
in accordance with term of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, and 
promptly after completion of each said monitoring, provide to the Bank a 
report on the monitoring, including: 
 
(i) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments; 
 
(ii) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with 
the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and 
 
(iii) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
conditions. 
 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, and through the Ministry of Railways as appropriate, ensure, 
and shall cause the Province to ensure, that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
semester, either January through June or July through December, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report, starting with the first full semester after the 
signing of the Loan. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than March 31, 2016. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end 
of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
 
 
- 8 - 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of all goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be carried out by a qualified independent procurement agent, engaged by the 
Borrower through the Ministry of Railways. 
 
4. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55  
and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, and Non-consulting services.  The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding:  Goods costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded under 
NCB procedures. The procedures to be followed for National 
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering 
and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by order 
No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 
1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made 
 
 
- 9 - 
in sufficient 
time 
for 
prospective 
bidders to 
obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days 
shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in 
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and 
the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the 
deadline for such submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall 
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
 
 
- 10 - 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to 
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and open access 
website and shall identify the name and offered price of the 
winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope of 
the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
The Borrower shall have in place provisions for bidders to 
protest. 
 
(b)  
Shopping  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Selection under Fixed Budget 
(c)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)  Single Source Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods to be procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding; (b) the first contract for goods to be procured under National 
Competitive Bidding procedures; (c) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more;  (d) all 
consultant’s contracts procured under single source selection; and (e) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual consultant  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Bank.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, 
inclusive of taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
(1)  Goods and Consultants’        
services 
199,500,000 
100% 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
500,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this  
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL 
200,000,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 
 
 
- 13 - 
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Results Framework and Monitoring  
 
The development objective of the Project is to respond to existing and anticipated transport demand along the Jilin-Hunchun corridor by providing increased 
capacity for freight and passengers, and faster travel time and increased frequency of services for passengers. 
PDO Level Results Indicators 
Core 
Unit of 
Measure 
Baseline 
Target Values 
Frequency 
Data Source/ 
Methodology 
Responsibility 
for Data 
Collection 
20151 
2020 
2025 
 
 
 
Indicator One: Number of 
train pairs operating per day on 
the JiTuHun line2 
 
number 
8 
13 
18 
21 
Annually 
Ministry of Railways 
(MOR)/Project Company 
Statistics 
MOR 
Indicator Two: Number of 
passengers travelling on the 
JiTuHun line3 
 
millions 
6 
8 
11 
13 
Annually 
MOR/ Project Company 
Statistics 
MOR 
Indicator Three: reduced 
transit time for passengers 
travelling between Tumen and 
Jilin (minutes) 
 
minutes 
460 
145 
145 
145 
Annually 
MOR/ Project Company 
Statistics 
MOR 
INTERMEDIATE RESULTS 
Intermediate Result 
 
Unit of 
Measure 
Baseline 
(2010) 
2012 
2013 
2014 
2015 
 
 
 
Indicator One: Completion 
rate of civil works. 
 
% 
0 
5 
40 
75 
100 
Twice 
yearly 
Project progress report 
MOR 
Indicator Two: Delivery of 
Bank financed goods. 
 
% 
0 
0 
5 
40 
100 
Twice 
yearly 
Project progress report 
MOR 
 
                                                 
1 Taken as first full year of operation 
2 This is defined to be all express (or high speed) trains passing through a ‘screenline’ on the track between Jilin and the first station of the new line (JiaoHe).  
This will include all trains operating on the new high speed line when it is opened. 
3 This is defined to be all passengers passing through a ‘screenline’ on the track between Jilin and the first station of the new line (JiaoHe). This will capture the 
majority of the trips on the new line – which are expected to travel at least as far as Jilin/Changchun 
 
 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
   
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
October 15, 2016 
1.48% 
April 15, 2017 
1.52% 
October 15, 2017 
1.56% 
April 15, 2018 
1.59% 
October 15, 2018 
1.63% 
April 15, 2019 
1.67% 
October 15, 2019 
1.72% 
April 15, 2020 
1.76% 
October 15, 2020 
1.80% 
April 15, 2021 
1.85% 
October 15, 2021 
1.89% 
April 15, 2022 
1.94% 
October 15, 2022 
1.99% 
April 15, 2023 
2.04% 
October 15, 2023 
2.09% 
April 15, 2024 
2.14% 
October 15, 2024 
2.20% 
April 15, 2025 
2.25% 
October 15, 2025 
2.31% 
April 15, 2026 
2.37% 
October 15, 2026 
2.43% 
April 15, 2027 
2.49% 
October 15, 2027 
2.55% 
April 15, 2028 
2.61% 
October 15, 2028 
2.68% 
April 15, 2029 
2.74% 
October 15, 2029 
2.81% 
 
 
- 15 - 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 15, 2030 
2.88% 
October 15, 2030 
2.95% 
April 15, 2031 
3.03% 
October 15, 2031 
3.10% 
April 15, 2032 
3.18% 
October 15, 2032 
3.26% 
April 15, 2033 
3.34% 
October 15, 2033 
3.43% 
April 15, 2034 
3.51% 
October 15, 2034 
3.60% 
April 15, 2035 
3.69% 
October 15, 2035 
3.78% 
April 15, 2036 
4.14% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
 
- 16 - 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
 
- 17 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” means the 
environmental management plan dated March 11, 2011 and duly adopted by the 
Borrower and the Ministry of Railways in respect of implementing the Project; 
which plan sets out, inter alia: (i) the actions and measures to be taken for 
mitigating the adverse environmental impacts resulting from the implementation 
of the Project and related facilities; including access roads, construction camps 
and resettlement sites; (ii) the criteria and procedures for developing and 
implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the 
adverse environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in 
locations that are not directly identified in the EMP; and (iii) administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; 
and such plan includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto. 
 
6. 
“FCTIC” means the Foreign Capital and Technology Import Center of the 
Ministry of Railways, or any successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
8. 
“Jilin” means the city of Jilin in Jilin Province (as hereinafter defined). 
 
 
- 18 - 
9. 
“Hunchun” means the city of Hunchun in Jilin Province. 
 
10. 
“Preparation Group” means the JiTuHun Railway Company Preparation Group 
established by the Ministry of Railways by Resolution dated July 3, 2009, or any 
of its successors. 
 
11. 
“Ministry of Railways” means the Ministry of Railways of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto,  and for the purpose of this Agreement, the reference to the 
Ministry of Railways shall include, inter alia, unless the context otherwise 
requires, specific reference to the Railway Administration. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan dated October 15, 
2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Province” means the Jilin Province of the Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“Railway Administration” means the Shenyang Railway Administration, which 
is established by the Ministry of Railways under its administrative control and 
responsible for the management, operation and maintenance of the railway 
system over an assigned territory of the Borrower and in which a portion of the 
JituHun Railway Line will be constructed. 
 
16. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean the resettlement 
action plan dated March 15, 2011 duly adopted by the Borrower and the Ministry 
of Railways, in respect of implementing the Project; which plan sets out, inter 
alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required 
for the Project and related facilities, including access roads, construction camps 
and resettlement sites; (ii) actions and measures for the payment of compensation 
to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (iii) the criteria 
and procedures for developing and implementing actions and measures, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from 
the implementation of activities in locations that are not directly identified in the 
RAP; and (iv) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with 
said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank; and such plan includes all schedules and annexes 
supplemental thereto. 
 
 
 
 
- 19 - 
17. 
“RAP Arrangement” means the arrangement dated March 16, 2011, entered into 
between the Preparation Group on behalf of the Ministry of Railways and the 
Province  for implementing the RAP in respect of the Project, which the 
Borrower and the Ministry of Railways have agreed to apply, with the 
concurrence of the Bank, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Bank; the RAP Arrangement includes the letter 
dated March 16, 2011 from the Ministry of Railways authorizing the Preparation 
Group to enter into the RAP Arrangement with the Province; and such 
arrangements include all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto. 
 
18. 
“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, the Environmental Management 
Plan, the Resettlement Action Plan, and the RAP Arrangement, and such term 
includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments. 
 
 
