 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
 
     LOAN NUMBER 8042-CN 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(Sichuan Small Towns Development Project) 
 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
  
 
 
 
 
Dated June 30, 2011 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 30, 2011 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in Appendix 1 to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or 
in Appendix 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million 
Dollars ($100,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of 
one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a 
rate equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable 
Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the 
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawal Loan 
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a 
period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall 
instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
- 2 - 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;  (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity (Sichuan) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
- 3 - 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Xicheng District 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
- 4 - 
 
 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
By/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
By/s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve priority infrastructure in the Project 
Counties/ Districts in Sichuan Province.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part I: Small Town Infrastructure Development   
 
 
Construction of selected urban roads, water supply networks, storm and 
sewerage drainage networks, canal and river embankments and a wastewater treatment 
facility  in the Xinjin, Hongya, Pengshan, Miyi, Daying and Zizhong Counties, and the 
Jialing and Shunqing Districts of Nanchong Municipality, in order to promote local 
economic development and improve environmental services.  
 
Part II: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building 
 
Provision of technical assistance for the implementation of Project activities by 
developing the institutional capacity of Project Participants implementing the Project, 
including provision of technical assistance for Project construction management and 
supervision (including design review, advisory services, traffic safety audit and 
engineering supervision), and for traffic management capacity development, as well as 
on-the-job training for staff of the Project Counties/Districts for operation, maintenance 
and management of their infrastructure investments, and independent monitoring of EMPs 
and RAPs. 
 
 
Provide support for the implementation of Project activities, by developing the 
institutional capacity of agencies and entities implementing the Project, including 
provision of technical assistance for design review, procurement, and monitoring the 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plans and Resettlement Action Plans 
and training and study tours during Project implementation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1) through (4) set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule available 
to the Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan), under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other 
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium 
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General 
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause the Project 
Implementing Entity (Sichuan) to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Progress Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
- 7 - 
in the Annex B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Progress 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than March 31 and September 30 in each year, starting on 
March 31, 2012.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan), not later 
than December 31, 2013, to review with the Borrower and the Bank (mid-term 
review) the progress made in the implementation of the Project, together with 
any recommendation the Borrower or the Bank may have on the needs for 
Project restructuring. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan) to prepare and furnish to the 
Bank as part of the Project Reports by not later than March 31 and September 30 
in each year after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan) to have the 
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Works.   All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
- 8 - 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.  In addition, the procedures to be 
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in 
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic 
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
    
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each , which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification 
or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In 
any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders 
between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission.   
   
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
   
(iii) All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
- 9 - 
(iv) All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity (Sichuan), as the case may be, in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity (Sichuan), as the case may be. 
 
(ix) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined:  
(A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and 
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall 
not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake 
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents 
or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a 
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
- 10 - 
(xii) All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall 
not take place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered price 
of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope 
of the awarded contract.   
 
(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan) shall have in place 
provisions for bidders to protest. 
(b) 
Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) 
Single-source Selection 
(c) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
- 11 - 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General 
Conditions; (b) if applicable, the Premium for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate 
Collars in accordance with Section 2.07(c) of the General Conditions; and  
(c) other Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed  
(inclusive of Taxes)  
(1) Works  
95,950,000 
 
92% 
(2) Consultants’ services and 
Training and Study Tours 
3,800,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
(4) Premium for Interest Rate 
Caps or Interest Rate 
Collars 
0 Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000  
 
 
- 12 - 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
under Category (1) for payments made by or for the benefit of each of 
the Project Counties/Districts until the Bank shall have notified the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan) of its receipt of 
a copy of the respective Subsidiary Agreements entered into between the 
relevant parties, satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part D, paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 
- 13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  
 
 (a)  
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by  
 
(b)  
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
September 15, 2017 
1.61% 
March 15, 2018 
1.65% 
September 15, 2018 
1.69% 
March 15, 2019 
1.73% 
September 15, 2019 
1.78% 
March 15, 2020 
1.82% 
September 15, 2020 
1.87% 
March 15, 2021 
1.91% 
September 15, 2021 
1.96% 
March 15, 2022 
2.01% 
September 15, 2022 
2.06% 
March 15, 2023 
2.11% 
September 15, 2023 
2.17% 
March 15, 2024 
2.22% 
- 14 - 
September 15, 2024 
2.27% 
March 15, 2025 
2.33% 
September 15, 2025 
2.39% 
March 15, 2026 
2.45% 
September 15, 2026 
2.51% 
March 15, 2027 
2.57% 
September 15, 2027 
2.64% 
March 15, 2028 
2.70% 
September 15, 2028 
2.77% 
March 15, 2029 
2.84% 
September 15, 2029 
2.91% 
March 15, 2030 
2.98% 
September 15, 2030 
3.06% 
March 15, 2031 
3.14% 
September 15, 2031 
3.21% 
March 15, 2032 
3.29% 
September 15, 2032 
3.38% 
March 15, 2033 
3.46% 
September 15, 2033 
3.55% 
March 15, 2034 
3.64% 
September 15, 2034 
3.73% 
March 15, 2035 
3.82% 
September 15, 2035 
3.92% 
March 15, 2036 
3.85% 
- 15 - 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
- 16 - 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 17 - 
APPENDIX 1 
 
Section I 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.  
 
4. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
The acronym “EMPs” means, collectively, the Environmental Impact 
Assessments and Environmental Management Plans, all prepared for Part I of the 
Project, dated:  
 
(a) 
for Pengshan County, May 13, 2010; 
 
(b)  
for Daying and Miyi Counties, May 14, 2010; and 
 
(c)  
for Xinjin, Hongya and Zizhong Counties, and Jialing and Shunqing 
Districts, May 15, 2010; and 
 
 
which set out, with respect to Part 1 of the Project, measures for the protection of 
the environment; and avoidance of, or mitigation against, adverse impact on 
physical cultural resources, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said assessments and plans, as said 
assessments or plans may be revised from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank, and such acronym includes any schedules or annexes 
supplemental to such assessments or plans.  The acronym “EMP” means, 
individually, any such plan. 
 
- 18 - 
6. 
The acronym “PIU” means any of the Project Agencies implementation units 
referred to in Section I.A.1(e) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
7. 
The acronym “PLG” means the Provincial Leading Group referred to in  
Section I.A.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
8. 
The acronym “PMO” means any of the Project Management Offices referred to 
in Section I.A.1(d) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 6, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Project Agencies” means, individually, the company and each of the Project  
agencies set forth in the second column of the table in Appendix 2 to this 
Agreement, which company is established and operating pursuant to its:  
 
(a) 
Charter issued on the date specified in the said table; specifically, in the 
third column of the same row as the Project Company concerned; and  
 
(b) 
Business license issued by the relevant Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau on the date and with the license 
number specified in the said table; specifically, in the fourth and fifth 
columns of the same row as the Project Company concerned,  
 
or any successor thereto; and “Project Agencies” means, collectively, said 
company and all such agencies. 
  
13. 
“Project Counties/Districts” means, individually, each of the counties, and the 
two districts of Nanchong Municipality set forth in the first column of the table in 
Appendix 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto; and “Project 
Counties/Districts” means, collectively, all such counties and districts. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “Sichuan” means the Borrower’s Sichuan 
Province, or any successor thereto.  
 
- 19 - 
15. 
“Project Participants” means, collectively, the Project Counties/Districts and the 
Project Agencies; and “Project Participant” means, individually, any of such 
Project Counties/Districts and Project Agencies.  
 
16. 
The acronym “RAPs” means, collectively, the plans, all dated June 30, 2010, 
which set out the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and 
other assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons on account of the execution of the Project, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such 
acronym includes any schedules or annexes supplemental to any such plan.  The 
acronym “RAP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
17. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of: (a) each of the Project 
Counties/Districts, activities under the Project to be carried out within its 
jurisdiction; and (b) each Project Agency, activities under the Project to be 
carried out within the jurisdiction of the Project Agency concerned. 
 
18. 
“Subsidiary Agency Agreements” means, collectively, the Subsidiary Agency 
Agreement to be entered into between the Project Counties/Districts and their 
respective Project Agencies, pursuant to Section I, paragraph D.2 of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in 
writing, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said 
agreements; and a “Subsidiary Agency Agreement” means, individually, any of 
such Subsidiary Agency Agreements. 
 
19. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements to be entered into between:  (a) Sichuan, as lender, on the one hand,  
and each of Daying County, Pengshan County, Zizhong County, Chengdu 
Municipality, Nanchong Municipality, Meishan Municipality, and Panzhihua 
Municipality, respectively, as borrower, on the other hand;  (b) Chengdu 
Municipality and Xinjin County, (c) Nanchong Municipality and Shunqing 
County; (d) Nanchong Municipality and Jialing County; (e) Meishan 
Municipality and Hongya County; and (f) Panzhihua Municipality and Miyi 
County, in each case pursuant to Section I, paragraph D.1 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as any of these agreements may be amended from time to 
time in writing, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said 
agreements; and a “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, individually, any of 
such Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
 
20. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
and the Subsidiary Agency Agreements. 
 
21. 
“Training and Study Tours” mean for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per diem for trainees 
- 20 - 
attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars and the cost of 
delivering training (excluding consultant fees) such as rental of training space 
and training equipment and other logistical costs, all as yearly budgeted and 
approved by the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
 
 
 
- 21 - 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
 
 
 
- 22 - 
 
APPENDIX 2 
 
 
Name of  
Project 
County/District 
 
 
 
Name of 
Project 
Agency or Company 
 
Project Company is established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter and Business License as follows:  
Date 
Of 
Charter 
 
Business 
 License Number 
Date 
of  
Business License 
 
Xinjin County  
Chengdu Small Towns Investment 
Corp, Ltd (CSTIC) 
July 3, 2008 
510100000071859 
June 18, 2007 
Daying  County  
Daying County Planning & 
Construction Bureau 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Shunqing  District  
Shunqing District Construction 
Bureau 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Jialing District  
Jialing District Planning & 
Construction Bureau 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Hongya County  
Hongya County Planning & 
Construction Bureau 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Pengshan County  
County Planning, Construction & 
Env Protection Bureau 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Zizhong  County  
Zizhong County Planning & 
Construction Bureau 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Miyi County  
Miyi County Planning & 
Construction Bureau 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
 
 
 
                                                                                        
