 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8088-MA 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Ouarzazate I Concentrated Solar Power Plant Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
and 
 
 
MOROCCAN AGENCY FOR SOLAR ENERGY 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 7, 2011 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated  December 7, 2011, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and MOROCCAN AGENCY 
FOR SOLAR ENERGY (“Borrower”).   
 
(A)  Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of Part 2 of the 
Project;
by an agreement of even date herewith (the CTF Loan Agreement), the 
Bank, acting as the implementing agency of the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) has 
agreed to make a loan (the CTF Loan) to the Borrower in the amount of ninety seven 
million Dollars ($97,000,000) to assist in financing Part 1.A of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the CTF Loan Agreement;  
 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, (a) the amount of one hundred ten million and nine 
hundred thousand Euros (€110,900,000) and (b) the amount of forty million 
- 2 - 
 
Dollars ($40,000,000), as such amounts may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing Part 2 of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request the following Conversion of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: a 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
- 3 - 
 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Basic Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement, or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Conventions have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower and/or the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of their 
obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project. 
 
(c) 
Any party to any of the Conventions or any of the agreements referred to 
in Sections 5.01 (f), 5.01 (i) and 5.01 (j) below has: (i) failed to perform 
any of its obligations under any of such Conventions or agreements and 
such default has affected materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement, or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project; or (ii) terminated any of the 
Conventions or any of such agreements and such termination has 
affected materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives 
of the Project. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs. 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
- 4 - 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity has been legally established in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
MASEN Capital has been legally established in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
(c)  
The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity have established an 
accounting and financial management system satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d) 
The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity have adopted the 
Financial Management and Disbursement Manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank and the Co-financiers. 
(e) 
The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity have adopted the 
Governance Framework, satisfactory to the Bank. 
(f) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and all conditions 
precedent to their effectiveness and to the right of the Project 
Implementing Entity to make withdrawals under them (other than the 
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been satisfied or waived. 
(g) 
The CTF Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness and to the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been satisfied or waived. 
(h) 
The Borrower and the Kingdom of Morocco have entered into the 
Project Specific Convention. 
(i) 
Execution and satisfaction of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness 
and, to the extent applicable,  to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement), 
of all the following agreements:  
- 5 - 
 
1. 
the AFD Co-financing Agreement; 
2. 
the AfDB Co-financing Agreements; 
3. 
the EC Co-financing Agreement; 
4. 
the EIB Co-financing Agreement; and 
5. 
the KfW Co-financing Agreements. 
(j) 
Execution and satisfaction of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness 
and, to the extent applicable, to the right of the Borrower or of the 
Project Implementing Entity to make withdrawals under them (other than 
the effectiveness of this Agreement), of all other agreements, to be found 
satisfactory by the Bank in form and substance within reasonable time, 
required to finance, construct, own, and operate the Plant, including, but 
not limited to:  
1. 
the EPC Contract; 
2.  
the Operation and Maintenance Agreement; 
3.  
the Power Purchase Agreement; 
4.  
the Power Sale Agreement; 
5. 
the Shareholders’ Agreement; 
6. 
the Transmission Interconnection Agreement; and 
7. 
the Grid Access Agreement.  
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely each of the 
agreements referred to in Section 5.01 (j) above has been duly authorized or 
ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding upon each of the 
parties thereto in accordance with its terms. 
- 6 - 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date three hundred sixty five (365) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the President of its Management Board 
(Directoire).   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Moroccan Agency for Solar Energy 
Immeuble Extension CMR; third floor 
Avenue Al Araar 
Hay Riad 
10014, Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
                                                         
 
(212) 537 57 14 75 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
- 7 - 
 
AGREED at Durban, South Africa, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Sri Mulyani Indrawati 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
MOROCCAN AGENCY FOR SOLAR ENERGY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Mustapha Bakkoury 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 8 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in the development of the 
500 Megawatt Ouarzazate solar power plant by financing the first phase (160 Megawatt 
gross) through a public private partnership (PPP), to increase power generation from 
solar power and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions and local environment impact. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1:  Financing the Initial Investment 
A. 
Development of the Plant through the formation of a PPP between the Borrower 
and a competitively selected partner. 
B. 
Construction of the Associated Facilities. 
Part 2:  Operational Support  
Supporting the acquisition of kilowatt-hours produced by the Project 
Implementing Entity to partially cover the difference in the price at which the Borrower 
would buy the electricity generated by the Plant and the price at which the Borrower 
would sell such electricity to ONE.  
 
 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall implement Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the 
Financial Management and Disbursement Manual, the Governance Framework 
and all agreements referred to in Sections 5.01 (i) and 5.01 (j) of this Agreement.  
The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive: (i) any 
provision of the Financial Management and Disbursement Manual, the 
Governance Framework without prior approval of the Bank; and (ii) any 
provision of any agreement referred to in Sections 5.01 (i)  and 5.01 (j) of this 
Agreement if such amendment, suspension, abrogation, repeal or waiver would 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower and/or the Project 
Implementing Entity to perform any of their obligations under this Agreement, or 
to achieve the objectives of the Project.. In addition, the Borrower shall not, and 
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity not to assign their respective rights 
any of the agreements referred to in Sections 5.01 (i) and 5.01 (j) of this 
Agreement without prior approval of the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Unit at all times during the 
implementation of the Project with qualified staff and adequate resources. 
3. 
The Borrower shall inform the Bank of: (i) any failure by any party to any of the 
Conventions and any of the agreements referred to in Sections 5.01 (f), 5.01 (i) 
and 5.01 (j) of this Agreement, to perform any of its obligations under any of 
such Conventions and agreements when such default may affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project, or (ii) any failure or 
violation by any such party, to the best of  the Borrower’s knowledge, of any law, 
regulation, decree, or order that could reasonably be expected to materially 
adversely affect the violating party’s ability to perform its obligations under any 
of the Conventions and any applicable agreement referred to in Sections 5.01 (f), 
5.01(i) and 5.01 (j). The Borrower shall inform the Bank of any dispute involving 
any party to any of the Conventions and any of the agreements referred to in 
Sections 5.01 (f), 5.01 (i) and 5.01 (j) of this Agreement and regarding any such 
Conventions and agreements, when such dispute may affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project. 
- 10 - 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Part 2 of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for 
the Project covering the semester, in a form and substance agreed by the 
Borrower with the Bank. 
 
3. 
 With respect to each withdrawal application, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank an interim unaudited financial report for the Project covering 
the time period agreed with the Bank, in a form and substance agreed by the 
Borrower and the Bank. Each such interim unaudited financial report shall 
include a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by an 
independent verification expert, satisfactory to the Bank, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, certifying that the amount of the relevant Solar 
Incremental Cost is correct as per the provisions of the Power Purchase 
Agreement, the Power Sale Agreement, the Conventions and any other relevant 
document. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
- 11 - 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial 
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a 
manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project 
Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
6. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its financial 
statements referred to in paragraph 5 above audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these financial statements shall 
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The 
Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the audited 
financial statements for each period shall be: (a) furnished to the Borrower for 
transmission to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of the period; 
and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank. 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 12 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
EUR) 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) Purchase of 
electricity for Part 
2 of the Project 
 
 110,622,750 
 
 
39,900,000 
100% of the Solar 
Incremental Cost 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
        277,250 
 
       100,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General 
Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 110,900,000 
 
 
40,000,000 
 
 
 
For the purposes of the above table, the Solar Incremental Cost shall be calculated as 
follows: 
 
Solar Incremental Cost = (A – B) - C 
 
“A” shall be equal to the amount paid for a specific quantity of electricity bought by the 
Borrower from the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the provisions of the Power 
Purchase Agreement; 
 
“B” shall be equal to the amount received by the Borrower from ONE for the same 
quantity of electricity pursuant to the provisions of the Power Sale Agreement; and 
 
“C”  shall be equal to the amount of the contribution, if any, received by the Borrower 
from the Kingdom of Morocco pursuant to the provisions of the Project Specific 
Convention to compensate for the price difference between “ A” and “B”. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
- 13 - 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
 
(b) 
under Category (1), until the Borrower shall have provided: (i) evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that the Plant is fully commissioned and 
operational; and (ii) with respect to each withdrawal application, the 
relevant interim unaudited financial report for the Project, including the 
report from the independent verification expert referred to in Section 
II.B.3 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2021. 
 
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings 
 
A.  
Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower’s Equity shall remain 
positive on a yearly basis commencing with the Borrower’s fiscal year 2012, as 
evidenced by the Borrower’s yearly audited financial statements.  
B. 
Before the end of each fiscal year commencing with the Borrower’s fiscal year 
2013, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a copy of the business plan and 
financial projections (which shall include projected consolidated balance sheet, 
income statement and cash flow statement), of the Borrower and its subsidiaries 
for each semester of the upcoming fiscal year, as adopted by the Management 
Board (Directoire) of the Borrower  and prepared in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, in a form and substance 
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
 
- 14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each June 15and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2017  
 
through December 15, 2040 
 
 
2.04% 
 
On June 15, 2041 
2.08% 
 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
- 15 - 
 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 16 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“AFD Co-financier” means Agence Française de Développement, the French 
Development Agency, referred to in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
“AFD Co-financing” means an amount of EUR 100 million to be provided to the 
Borrower by the AFD Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.A of the Project. 
3. 
“AFD Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the AFD Co-financier providing for the AFD Co-financing. 
4. 
“AfDB Co-financier” means African Development Bank, referred to in the 
Appendix to the Standard Conditions. 
5. 
“AfDB Co-financing I” means an amount of EUR 200 million to be provided to 
the Borrower by the AfDB Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.A of the 
Project. 
6. 
“AfDB Co-financing II” means an amount of USD 100 million to be provided to 
the Borrower by the AfDB Co-financier acting as an implementing entity of the 
Clean Technology Fund to assist in financing Part 1.A of the Project 
7. 
“AfDB Co-financing Agreements” means the two agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the AfDB Co-financier providing for the AfDB Co-
financing I and the AfDB Co-financing II, respectively. 
8. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
9. 
"Associated Facilities" means those facilities and infrastructures, including but 
not limited to those to be built and operated for the purposes of (i) providing 
water for the operation of the Plant, and (ii) transporting power to and from the 
Plant through transmission lines. 
10. 
“Basic Legislation” means the Law No. 57-09 of the Kingdom of Morocco, dated 
February 11, 2010, as promulgated pursuant to the  Law (“Dahir”) No. 1.10-18 of 
the Kingdom of Morocco, dated February 11, 2010, pursuant to which the 
Borrower has been established and is operating as a commercial company 
(société anonyme). 
- 17 - 
 
11. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
12. 
 “Co-financiers” means the AFD Co-financier, AfDB Co-financier, EC Co-
financier, EIB Co-financier and KfW Co-financier.  
13. 
“Conventions” means the General Convention, the Project Specific Convention 
and the Tripartite Convention. 
14. 
“CTF Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
World Bank for Part 1.A of the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as 
such agreement may be amended from time to time. “CTF Loan Agreement” 
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the CTF Loan 
Agreement.  
15. 
  “EC Co-financier” means the European Commission, referred to in the 
Appendix to the Standard Conditions. 
16. 
“EC Co-financing” means an amount of USD 37 million to be provided to the 
Borrower as a grant by the EC Co-financier under its Neighborhood Investment 
Facility to assist in financing Part 1.A of the Project, through the financing of the 
Borrower’s share of the Project Implementing Entity’s equity interest. 
17. 
“EC Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the EC Co-financier providing for the EC Co-financing. 
18. 
“EIB Co-financier” means European Investment Bank, referred to in the 
Appendix to the Standard Conditions. 
19. 
“EIB Co-financing” means an amount of EUR 100 million to be provided to the 
Borrower by the EIB Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.A of the Project. 
20. 
“EIB Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the EIB Co-financier providing for the EIB Co-financing. 
21. 
“EPC Contract” means the Engineering, Procurement and Construction Contract 
to be entered into by the Project Implementing Entity and a third-party contractor 
for front-end engineering design, procurement of equipment and services, and 
construction of the Plant on a lump-sum, turnkey basis or such other basis as may 
be suitable for completion of the facility within the timeframe, technical 
parameters and other terms agreed between the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity in the Power Purchase Agreement. 
- 18 - 
 
22. 
“Equity" means the sum of equity contributions (paid-up capital and premium 
paid in relation to issued shares, share contributions and mergers), revaluation 
adjustments, reserves, net result carried forward (debtor and creditor), retained 
earnings (including the current year net result), investment subsidies and 
regulated provisions. 
“Financial Management and Disbursement Manual” means the manual 
describing 
the 
financial 
management, 
co-financing 
and 
disbursement 
arrangements for the Project, and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
23. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
24. 
“General Convention” means the convention dated October 26, 2010, entered 
into between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Borrower pursuant to Article 1 of 
the Basic Legislation, and approved by the Kingdom of Morocco under Decree 
No. 2-11-528 dated September 8, 2011, regarding the conditions and modalities 
necessary for the implementation of the solar energy program of the Kingdom of 
Morocco. 
25. 
“Governance Framework” means the set of rules and practices, policies and 
procedures designed to facilitate accrued efficiency and prevent corrupt practices,  
to be implemented by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity. 
26. 
“Grid Access Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between ONE 
and the Borrower defining the conditions of injection into the national high 
voltage/very high voltage electricity grid for the electricity generated by the 
Plant. 
27. 
 “KfW Co-financier” means Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, the German 
Development Agency, referred to in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions. 
28. 
“KfW Co-financing I” means an amount of EUR 74 million to be provided to the 
Borrower by the KfW Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.A of the Project. 
29. 
“KfW Co-financing II” means an amount of EUR 26 million to be provided to 
the Borrower by the KfW Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.A of the 
Project through the financing of the Borrower’s share of the Project 
Implementing Entity’s equity interest. 
- 19 - 
 
30. 
“KfW Co-financing Agreements” means the two agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the KfW Co-financier providing for the KfW Co-
financing I and for the KfW Co-financing II, respectively. 
31. 
“MASEN Capital” means the subsidiary of the Borrower to be established under 
the laws of the Kingdom of Morocco by the Borrower in order to hold its share of 
the Project Implementing Entity’s equity interest. 
32. 
  “ONE” means Office National de l’Electricité, the National Electricity Agency 
of the Kingdom of Morocco. 
33. 
 “Operation and Maintenance Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Project Implementing Entity and a third party operator 
allocating to the operator the obligation to operate and maintain the Plant in 
accordance with its terms and conditions.  
34. 
“Plant” means the concentrated solar parabolic trough facility for the generation 
of electricity of a capacity up to 160 megawatt gross at a 450 hectare site located 
10 kilometers northeast of the city of Ouarzazate in the Kingdom of Morocco. 
35. 
“Power Purchase Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity for the sale by the Project 
Implementing Entity, and the purchase by the Borrower, of electricity generated 
from the Plant in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
36. 
“Power Sale Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ONE for the sale by the Borrower, and the purchase by ONE, of 
electric capacity and energy generated from the Plant in accordance with its 
terms and conditions. 
37. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the company to be established under the 
laws of the Kingdom of Morocco by the Borrower and a competitively selected 
partner to develop the Plant to be constructed under Part 1.A of the Project. 
38. 
 “Project Management Unit” means the Borrower’s Project management unit 
referred to in Section I.A.2 in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
39. 
“Project Specific Convention” means the convention to be entered into between 
the Kingdom of Morocco and the Borrower pursuant to Article 22 of the General 
Convention, setting forth in particular undertakings from the Kingdom of 
Morocco to ensure the economic and financial equilibrium of the Project. 
40. 
 “Shareholders’ Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into by MASEN 
Capital with all the other holders of all of the Project Implementing Entity’s 
- 20 - 
 
voting and nonvoting equity interest that governs their relationship and collective 
approach to management of the Project Implementing Entity’s affairs.  
41. 
“Solar Incremental Cost” means the amount to be financed by the Bank under 
Category (1) set forth in the table in Section III.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as calculated pursuant to the formula set forth in Section III.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
42. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the agreement or agreements, as the case 
may be, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the CTF 
Loan and the proceeds of the AFD Co-financing, the AfDB Co-financing I, the 
AfDB Co-financing II, the EIB Co-financing, and the KfW Co-financing I  
available as a loan or loans, as the case may be,  to the Project Implementing 
Entity. 
43. 
“Transmission Interconnection Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and ONE, to connect the Plant to the high 
voltage/very high voltage electric power transmission network in the territory of 
the Kingdom of Morocco at a level and under such conditions as to ensure 
evacuation of the total net electricity output of the Plant for the term of the Power 
Purchase Agreement. 
44. 
“Tripartite Convention” means the Convention dated October 26, 2010, entered 
into among the Kingdom of Morocco, the Borrower and ONE pursuant to  
Article 3 of the Basic Legislation, regarding the obligations of each of such 
parties regarding the supply, transport, commercialization and exportation of 
electricity. 
 
 
