 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8023-KZ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(KAZSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated August 26, 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8023-KZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated August 26, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.06.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through ASRK in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV —EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
 (a) 
The PIT has been established by the Borrower, through the ASRK, with 
a composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b)  
The CWG has been established by the Borrower with a composition, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(c)  
The Borrower has adopted the Project Operations Manual satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
- 3 - 
 
 
4. 02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.  
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
11 Pobedy Street 
Astana 010000 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
265126 (FILIN)  
7-7172-717785 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 4 - 
 
 
AGREED at Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
 
 
By /s/ Bolat Zhamishev 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Sebnem Akkaya 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the 
national statistical system to provide relevant, timely and reliable data in line with 
internationally accepted methodology and best practices. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Improvement of the Institutional Framework and Operations of the Statistical  
 
System 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to: (a) improve laws and 
regulations governing the interaction between various statistical agencies; (b) 
rationalize the institutional structure of ASRK; (c) improve the strategic planning 
procedures and methodologies; (d) develop and implement an effort recording 
system; (e) introduce a quality management program; and (f) maintain and 
improve office furniture and equipment. 
 
Part 2. Improvement of Information and Communication Systems and Physical 
 
Infrastructure 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to: (a) improve the 
integrated processing system; (b) strengthen the expertise and skills of the ICT 
Unit staff; (c) upgrade hardware and software at ASRK for accelerated data 
processing; and (d) improve the existing ASRK corporate communications 
network. 
 
Part 3. Improvement of Human Resources 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to: (a) introduce 
performance management, career development and staff assignment programs at 
ASRK; (b) design and implement a training strategy at ASRK; (c) develop and 
implement a training abroad program for staff at ASRK; and (d) revise the 
current recruitment policies and procedures at ASRK. 
 
Part 4. Improvement of Statistical Infrastructure, Standards and Methodology 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to: (a) update the Business 
Register; (b) improve the Population Register; (c) improve the Dwelling 
Register; (d) improve the Agricultural Register; (e) improve statistical 
classifications and standards; (f) develop the statistical toolkit system; (g) 
- 6 - 
 
improve the sampling methods; (h) develop and introduce time series and 
seasonal adjustment methods; and (i) improve the analysis function of ASRK. 
 
Part 5. Improvement of User - Provider Relations 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to: (a) improve the user 
relations policy; (b) develop data dissemination procedures and marketing 
policies; (c) improve provider policies; and (d) improve the ASRK web-portal. 
 
Part 6. Improvement of Individual Subject Matter Programs and Methodologies 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to: (a) improve macro-
economic statistics; (b) improve micro-economic statistics including industry, 
energy, construction, investment, foreign and domestic trade, and services 
statistics; (c) improve agricultural statistics; (d) improve social statistics; (e) 
improve labor statistics; and (f) develop environmental statistics. 
 
Part 7. Project Management 
 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services, training and incremental operating 
costs to ASRK for project management, implementation and monitoring and 
evaluation. 
 
- 7 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following 
institutional and other arrangements: 
 
1.  
The CWG shall have overall responsibility for Project oversight, inter-agency 
coordination and policy guidance in accordance with the requirements, criteria, 
organizational arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the Project 
Operations Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through ASRK, and with the assistance 
of the PIT, in accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational 
arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the Project Operations 
Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provisions of the 
Project Operations Manual without prior approval of the Bank. The PIT will 
coordinate day-to-day Project activities, including responsibilities for reporting, 
procurement and financial management under the Project. 
 
3. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain the ASRK, the PIT and the CWG with a composition, resources, and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.  
The Borrower shall, not later than December 20 of each year, during the 
implementation of the Project, and starting December 20, 2011, submit to the 
Bank an Annual Business Plan for the following calendar year identifying Project 
activities by component and sub-component, and their related expenditures and 
financing sources, and shall agree with the Bank on activities to be undertaken 
under the Project in the following year and the related budget.   
 
5. 
Not later than December 31, 2011, the Borrower shall select and engage the 
services of an independent auditor under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
- 8 - 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2.  
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
3. 
Not later than 30 months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall carry out 
jointly with the Bank, the midterm review, which shall cover, amongst other 
things, the overall Project performance. 
 
4.  
The Borrower shall prepare, and furnish to the Bank, at least six (6) weeks prior 
to the Midterm Review a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
4.  
Before Project implementation begins, the Borrower shall select and engage the 
services of a financial management consultant with qualifications and under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to support the chief accountant and be 
responsible for financial management of the Project. 
- 9 - 
 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set 
forth in the Attachment to this Schedule 2 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c) 
Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
- 10 - 
 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality Based Selection 
(b) 
Least Cost Selection  
(c) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
(e) 
Single-Source Selection 
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
(1) 
Goods, 
consultants’ 
services, 
Training, 
and 
Incremental 
Operating 
Costs for the Project 
20,000,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,000,000 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
For the purpose of this table: 
 
(a) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable expenditures 
incurred for the implementation of the Project by the ASRK on account of 
communications, translations, office supplies, advertisements, photocopying, 
mail, and travel expenses. Such costs will be financed out of the Loan Proceeds 
pursuant to an annual budget approved by the Bank, and according to the 
ASRK administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.  Incremental 
Operating Costs will not include salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil 
service. 
 
(b) 
“Training” means Project related training and workshops to be carried out 
according to annual training plans to be prepared by the ASRK and agreed to 
by the Bank, including study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and 
other training activities, not included under goods or service providers’ 
contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, 
local travel, per diem costs of trainees and trainers’ fees, and interpretation and 
translation services. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2017.  
- 12 - 
 
Attachment  
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding procedures of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of goods under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
1. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Guidelines: 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits; accordingly, no bidder or 
potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the 
Association for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the Guidelines: 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits. 
 
2. 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Bank.  
 
3. 
An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional circumstances, shall be 
requested in writing from all bidders before the expiration date and for a 
minimum period required to complete the evaluation or award contract.    
 
4. 
National preferences should not be applied.  
 
5. 
Entities in which the State owns a majority shareholding shall not be invited to 
participate in tenders for the Government unless they are and can be shown to be 
legally and financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law. 
 
6. 
The post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract performance, 
financial and technical capabilities of bidders.  
 
7. 
Joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their obligations. 
 
8. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for their 
submission. No bids should be rejected at bid opening unless they are late. 
 
9. 
No bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated price.  
 
10. 
Qualification criteria for bid evaluation shall be applied on a pass or fail basis. 
 
11. 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the lowest 
evaluated substantially responsive bid and no price negotiation shall take place. 
 
- 13 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
 
Beginning April 15, 2016  
 
through October 15, 2025 
 
 
 
5.0% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
- 14 - 
 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 15 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, as revised in January 2011. 
2. 
“ASRK” means the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Statistics 
established by the Borrower’s Government by Decree No. 1460, dated December 
31, 2004 or any successor or successors thereto, and which, with the PIT, is 
responsible for implementing the Project. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
“Coordination Working Group” or “CWG” means the inter-agency coordination 
working group established pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement to 
oversee and monitor the implementation of the Project. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans,” dated July 31, 2010. 
 
6. 
“Project Implementation Team” or “PIT” means the project implementation team 
established within the ASRK pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement, to 
carry out the implementation and day-to-day management of the Project, and 
which shall include, inter alia: (i) a project coordinator; (ii) a financial 
management specialist; and (iii) a procurement specialist. 
 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 16, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
9. 
“Project Operations Manual” or “POM” means the manual, to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01(c) of this Agreement, setting forth the 
operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the 
implementation of the Project, including a manual of financial management 
procedures that sets out procedures for Project accounting, reporting and audit, 
- 16 - 
 
disbursements, flow of funds and management of the designated account as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
