 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7953-UY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Public Sector, Competitiveness 
and Social Inclusion Development Policy Loan) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the 
Loan Agreement), entered into between REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
- 2 - 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in Article II of this Agreement or 
Article III of the General Conditions, the Borrower may request that an amount 
withdrawn from the Loan Account shall be converted into Uruguayan Pesos 
(“UYU”) through the issuance by the Bank of UYU bonds in connection with 
such conversion (the “UYU Notes”).  Such withdrawn amount shall accrue 
interest, and the principal amount thereof shall be repayable, in each case 
exclusively on such terms and conditions as the Borrower and the Bank may 
separately agree, subject always to the Bank’s determination in its sole discretion 
that it can issue the UYU Notes for such amount on reasonable terms. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange information on the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
policy framework and views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of information and views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out 
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire 
on April 16, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Colonia No. 1089, Tercer Piso 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable:  
Telex:  
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
MINECON 
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo Uruguay 
(59-82) 
1712-
2688 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 5 - 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America on behalf of the Bank on 
January 26, 2011 and at Montevideo, Uruguay on behalf of the Borrower on February 1, 
2011. 
 
 
 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Fernando Lorenzo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Penelope Brook 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds; Access to Information 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program 
 
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program.  The actions taken by the Borrower under 
the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower, in support of its e-government agenda, has: (a) approved the Law 
on Electronic Documents and Digital Signature, and said law is in full force and 
effect; and (b) implemented Expediente Electrónico in its Ministry of Industry, 
Energy and Mining, as well as in its Ministry of Public Health.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, in support of its trade facilitation agenda, has: (a) created 
CONALOG; and (b) presented to its Parliament the draft law dated August 10, 
2009, with the objective of creating INALOG, for approval thereof. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has approved the Capital Markets Law, and said law is in full 
force and effect. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, in support of its investment climate agenda, has established 
Empresa en el Día, a one-stop shop for the creation of firms. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, in support of the implementation of the Plan de Equidad Social, 
has: (a) expanded the family allowance system to a total of 390,000 beneficiaries 
by the end of 2009 (from a baseline of 328,000 beneficiaries by the end of 2008); 
(b) covered a total of 87,500 households to the Tarjeta Alimentaria (food card) 
program by the end of 2009 (from a baseline of 62,000 households by the end of 
2008); and (c) designed the SIIAS. 
 
6. 
The Borrower in support of its national health policy reform has adopted a 
scheme linking public health financing to the achievement of health care targets 
related to primary care controls for children and pregnant women.  
 
7. 
The Borrower, in support of its educational policy reform seeking to reduce the 
digital gap, has completed the implementation of the Plan Ceibal as evidenced 
by, inter alia, the distribution of XO laptops to all children in public primary 
schools and the provision to said schools with wireless connectivity to the 
Internet. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
100,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  
 
D.  
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.   
  
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with 
the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
F. 
Audit.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the account designated by the Borrower pursuant to Section E.1 of 
this Section audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
- 8 - 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case no later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, and make such report publicly available 
in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account and 
its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
G. 
Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
H. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
I. 
Access to Information.  The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any 
information related to the Legal Agreements in accordance with the World Bank 
Policy on Access to Information, dated July 1, 2010. 
 
- 9 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15 and August 15 
     Beginning February 15, 2026  
     through August 15, 2030 
 
9.09% 
On February 15, 2031 
9.10% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
 
- 10 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 11 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Capital Markets Law” means Ley del Mercado de Valores, the Borrower’s Law 
N. 18.627 providing for the organization and regulation of its capital markets, 
dated November 24, 2009 and published in the Borrower’s official gazette on 
December 16, 2009. 
 
2. 
“CONALOG” means Comisión Nacional de Logística, the Borrower’s National 
Logistics Commission, as created pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 
237/009 dated May 20, 2009. 
 
3. 
“Empresa en el Día” means the Borrower’s specialized program for facilitating 
the setting up of firms in its territory, as said program is set forth in the 
Borrower’s Presidential decree No. 155/010 dated May 24, 2010. 
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
- 12 - 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
5. 
“Expediente Electrónico” means the modality of electronic registration of public 
documents, aimed at supporting administrative decision-making, as this modality 
is set forth in the Borrower’s Presidential decree No. 65/998 of March 10, 1998, 
as amended.  
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
7. 
“INALOG” means the prospective Instituto Nacional de Logística (the 
Borrower’s National Logistics Institute) which will be established if the 
Borrower’s draft law referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
is enacted.  
 
8. 
“Law on Electronic Documents and Digital Signature” means Ley de 
Documentación Electrónica y Firma Digital, the Borrower’s Law N. 18,600 
dated September 21, 2009, setting forth the use of electronic documents and 
digital signatures. 
 
9. 
“Parliament” means the legislative branch of government of the Borrower. 
- 13 - 
 
10. 
“Plan Ceibal” means Plan de Conectividad Educativa de Informática Básica 
para el Aprendizaje en Linea, the Borrower’s program intended to facilitate 
digital connectivity for online learning, with the objective of reducing the digital 
gap, pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential decree No. 144/07 dated April 18, 
2007.  
 
11. 
“Plan de Equidad Social” means the Borrower’s structural income transfer policy 
established by Law No. 18.227 dated December 22, 2007 and published in the 
Borrower’s official gazette on January 9, 2008. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated July 14, 2010, from the Borrower to the Bank, 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
13. 
“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and 
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references 
to “the date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.  
 
14. 
“SIIAS” means Sistema Integrado de Información Social, the Borrower’s 
Integrated System of Social Information, to be organized within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Development.   
 
15. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Tarjeta Alimentaria” means the Borrower’s program designed to provide food 
support to households in extreme poverty, pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 
18.172, dated August 31, 2007, and in accordance with operating guidelines 
issued, inter alia, by the Borrower’s Ministry of Development. 
 
17. 
“UYU” means Uruguayan Pesos, the Borrower’s local currency. 
 
18. 
“UYU Notes” means the UYU bonds referred to in Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
… 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
… 
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:  
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
