 
 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8037-CN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Kunming Urban Rail Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 28, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 28, 2011, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC              
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars 
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such  
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable 
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 2 - 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan) to carry 
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that, any 
of the parties to the Subsidiary Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations thereunder. 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Chen Sixin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
 AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Klaus Rohland  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project, which consists of the construction of the 19.54 km 
long Line 3 of the Kunming urban rail system, is to support compact, transit-oriented 
urban development by providing high quality, integrated public transport on the  
East-West Line 3 corridor. 
 
 
The Project consists following Parts: 
 
Part A:  Works: Carrying out a program of civil works for selected stations, including 
inter alia, bus interchange and bike parking facilities, where appropriate, and associated 
facilities such as, but not limited to,  depots and track, equipments installation, and other  
related installation at selected stations.  
 
Part B: Equipment: Provision of various equipment such as, but not limited to, power 
supply, escalators, fare collection, and communication systems, and technological 
equipment at depot and other related facilities. 
 
Part 
C: 
Technical 
Assistance 
and 
Capacity 
Building: 
Provision 
of: 
(i) studies to support bus-rail integration and the future development and construction of 
the public transport system; and (ii) support for Project management capacity building 
and for operations management.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan) 
the proceeds of the Loan under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall include the following:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other 
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.    
 
 
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium 
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) 
shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five (5) years. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan) to: (a) 
manage, operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made 
available to it pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements 
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b)  take, all required actions, including 
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the 
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project, to 
enable the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan)  to comply 
with their respective undertakings under this Agreement; and (c) maintain all 
relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide 
promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as may be 
requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time. 
 
- 7 - 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Project Implementing Entity 
(Yunnan), monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than March 15 and 
September 15 in each year, commencing on March 15, 2012.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan) to prepare and furnish to the 
Bank as part of the Project Report by not later than March 15 and September 15 
in each year after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan) to have its 
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall 
cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
- 8 - 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference 
in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB).  Works costing less than $20,000,000 
equivalent per contract and goods costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded under NCB procedures, 
subject to the additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below.  
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on 
Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order 
No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, 
with the following clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement 
Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s territory, except for works 
contracts that are estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent but 
less than US$2,000,000 equivalent each or for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be 
advertised in a provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be 
made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification 
or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between 
the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall 
specify the deadline for such submission. 
- 9 - 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the employer in case of breach of contract by the contractor, 
and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such security. In place of a bid security, the bidding documents may 
require that a bidder submit with its bid a signed declaration that, if the 
bidder withdraws its bid during the bid validity period or, if awarded the 
contract, the bidder fails to sign the contract or submit any required 
performance security before the deadline required in the bidding 
documents, the bidder will be suspended for a period of two (2) years 
from being awarded any contract with the Borrower or Yunnan, 
including any of their departments, agencies or administrative units. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Borrower or Yunnan. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost.  The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
- 10 - 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they can 
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous;  
(B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency 
of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take 
place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
(xiii)     The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national press or provincial press or official gazette or a free and open 
access website and shall identify the name and offered price of the 
winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope of the 
awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
Yunnan shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
4. 
Other Method of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and 
works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)      Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 11 - 
Procurement Methods 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
3. 
The short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$300,000 
equivalent may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
 Procurement Plan shall stipulate the contracts subject to Prior Review by the 
Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. In 
addition the terms-of-reference for all consultant contracts, regardless of value, 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 12 - 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
(1)  Civil works, goods, 
Consultants’ services and 
Training  
     299,250,000 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
            750,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(3)  Premium for Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
                     0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
 TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
 
(a)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after October 31, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); 
and  
 
(b)  
for expenditures under Category (1) unless: (i) the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been executed on behalf of the parties thereto; and (ii) a legal 
opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, from counsel acceptable to the Bank 
has been provided to the Bank showing that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally 
binding upon the parties, in accordance with its terms; and (iii) unless 
KRTC has secured the land required for the metro-public transport-
bicycle integration according to the Integration Plan, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2016. 
- 13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15,  
beginning October 15, 2016, through  
April  15, 2041 
 
2.00% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
- 14 - 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
- 15 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plans” and the acronym “EMP” means collectively 
the 
Environmental 
Management 
Plans 
adopted 
by 
Kunming 
dated  
November 1, 2010, which plans set out the environmental protection measures in 
respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank; and “Environmental Management Plan” 
means, individually, any of the Environmental Management Plans. 
 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity beginning on January 1 of a year and ending on  
December 31 of the same year. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
8. 
“Integration Plan” means the KRTC’s Integration Plan of February 2011, 
acceptable to the Bank, aimed at integrating the rail system with bus and cycle 
facilities, in Kunming (as hereinafter defined). 
 
9. 
“Kunming” means Kunming Municipality, or any successor thereto. 
 
- 16 - 
10. 
“KRTC” means Kunming Rail Transit Company Ltd., a company owned by 
Kunming, established in 2005, under the Borrower’s Order No. Kunzhengfu, 
2008/79, and   responsible for coordinating the implementation of the Project, 
raising funds, and managing construction in the railway sector, and registered 
under License No.530100000013468, approved in 2008 by Kunming 
Administrative Bureau For Industry and Commerce. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 10, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Project Leading Group” means the Project leading group maintained by 
Kunming, and referred to in paragraph 2(a) of Section I.A of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Project Management Office” means the Project management office maintained 
by KRTC, and referred to in paragraph 2(b) of Section I.A of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement pursuant to which Yunnan shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to Kunming and through Kunming to KRTC. 
 
16. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” or the acronym “RAP” means, collectively the 
Resettlement Action Plan adopted by Kunming, dated October 27, 2010, which 
plans set out, inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons 
on account of the execution of the Project; and (b) reporting and monitoring 
arrangements  to ensure compliance with said plan, as said RAP may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement 
Action Plan” means, individually, any of the Resettlement Action Plans. 
 
17. 
“Training” means the costs of training under the Project, based on annual work 
plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, 
workshops, and study tours, along with travel and subsistence allowances for 
training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation 
and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to 
course preparation and implementation. 
 
18. 
“Yunnan” means the Borrower’s Yunnan Province or any successor thereto; also 
referred to as the Project Implementing Entity.    
