  
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7961-PE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Juntos Results for Nutrition Project 
Cierre de Brechas en Productos Priorizados dentro del Programa Articulado 
Nutricional) 
 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERÚ 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 5, 2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
LOAN NUMBER 7961-PE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 5, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF PERÚ (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty five million Dollars, 
($25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the operation described in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Borrower’s Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s 
Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury (DGETP), or any person whom any 
of them shall designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
 
-2- 
 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program. To this end, the Borrower, through DGPP (as technical coordinator) 
and UCPS (as administrative coordinator), shall carry out: (a) Part 1 of the 
Project with the participation of Juntos; (b) Part 2 of the Project with the 
participation of the Regional Governments; and (c) Part 3 of the Project with the 
participation of SIS and INEI, all in accordance with the provisions of the 
Program, the pertinent Result Agreements, the INEI Agreement, the Operational 
Manual and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and shall ensure the provision of resources required 
to carry out the Project. 
 
 
 
-3- 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a  
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part 
of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, through 
UCPS, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
the Result Agreements have been signed by the Borrower and by the 
corresponding parties thereto, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
5.02. The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the 
Result Agreements with Juntos and SIS have been duly authorized or approved 
by the corresponding parties thereto, and all said agreements are legally binding 
upon the corresponding parties in accordance with their terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on September 8, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided 
that the Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or 
herself, represent the Borrower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are 
considered of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such 
Director of an amendment shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that 
any such amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in 
nature.  
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
Facsimile:   
(511) 626-9921 
 
 
-4- 
 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERÚ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ismael Benavides Ferreyros 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Susan G. Goldmark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase demand for nutrition services by 
strengthening the operational effectiveness of Juntos; and (b) improve coverage and 
quality of the supply of basic preventive health and nutrition services in the communities 
covered under the Program, including Juntos. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Strengthening and Consolidating of Juntos for Families with Children under 
Thirty Six Months  
 
Support an incentive mechanism through Output Payments based on selected 
eligible budget lines (the Eligible Budget Lines) for: (a) the affiliation of children 
younger than 12 months to Juntos; and (b) the verification of the health co-
responsibilities for children younger than 36 months already affiliated to Juntos.  
 
Part 2. Improving Coverage and Quality of the Provision of Basic Preventive Health and 
Nutrition Services in Juntos Areas 
 
Support a stronger governance system for the Program and create incentives for 
health providers to increase coverage and improve quality of basic health and 
nutrition services in the Juntos Areas through capitation payment modalities in 
order to allow Juntos beneficiaries to comply with their health and nutrition co-
responsibilities.   
 
Part 3. Strengthening the Borrower’s Capacity to Influence Nutritional Outcomes by 
Improving Budgetary Planning and Monitoring of Results for Selected Activities 
of the Program 
 
Support an incentive mechanism to strengthen the Borrower’s budgetary 
planning and monitoring capacity in relation to the Program through Output 
Payments based  on selected eligible budget lines (the Eligible Budget Lines) for: 
(a) the implementation of a monitoring system and planning and monitoring 
capacity for Health Facilities; (b) the establishment of a social monitoring of 
nutrition results at the municipal level; (c) the technical verification of capacity 
of Health Facilities; (d) the early affiliation of newborns to SIS; and (e) the 
verification of CRED information. 
 
 
 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project based on the resources of the Eligible 
Budget Lines through DGPP (as technical coordinator) and UCPS (as 
administrative coordinator) in accordance with this Agreement, including the 
Operational Manual, the Procurement Plan and the Indigenous Peoples’ Strategic 
Framework, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or 
waive any provision of these documents without the Bank’s prior written 
approval.  In case of any conflict between the terms of said documents and those 
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. In addition, in case 
of any conflict between the Operational Manual and the additional instructions 
referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule, said additional instructions shall 
prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the execution of the 
Project, DGPP and UCPS shall have competent staff in adequate numbers and 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through DGPP, shall hold, until the completion of the execution 
of the Project, the Regular Meetings to convene at least once every year, and 
shall submit the minutes of each of said meetings to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through UCPS, shall furnish to the Bank at least once                             
a year during the Project implementation, regular reports (the Regular Reports) as 
prepared by DGPP, all in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual (including the Indicators) and the additional instructions referred to in 
Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through UCPS, shall, not later than December 31 of each year of 
Project implementation (starting on the first such date after the Effective Date), 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a procurement report (the Procurement Plan 
Report) confirming that all procurement activities under the Parts 1 and 3 of the 
Project have been carried out in accordance with the Procurement Plan. Each 
Procurement Plan Report shall cover the period of twelve months preceding the 
presentation of such report and shall be furnished to the Bank by the Borrower 
not later than four months after the end of the period covered by each such report.  
6. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 3(c) of the Project, the Borrower shall enter 
into no later than December 31, 2011, and thereafter maintain, an agreement with 
 
-7- 
 
INEI (the INEI Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank 
which shall include, inter alia, the pertinent provisions of this Agreement 
(including Section III of this Schedule) and of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the INEI Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the INEI Agreement or 
any of its provisions. 
 
7. 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of the General Conditions, if, at 
any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the Loan proceeds was used to 
finance (through reimbursements) items improperly procured in violation of 
Section III to this Schedule, was not used to finance (through reimbursements) 
Eligible Expenditures or was not supported by evidence of actual results 
achieved and actual execution of the Eligible Budget Lines by the Borrower 
under the Regular Reports and/or by evidence of satisfaction of other criteria set 
forth in this Agreement or in the Operational Manual, the Borrower shall 
promptly refund any such portion to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  
 
8. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project and the Program as referred to in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through DGPP, shall: implement the 
Result Agreements with Juntos (in respect of Part 1 of the Project) and SIS (in 
respect of Part 3 (d) and (e) of the Project), all under terms and conditions 
detailed in the Operational Manual. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower, through the entity or entities that the Borrower may deem 
appropriate, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards: Indigenous Peoples 
 
The Borrower shall, when applicable, implement the Project or cause the Project 
to be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Indigenous Peoples 
Strategic Framework. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower through DGPP and with the support of UCPS shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of: 
 
-8- 
 
(a) the Monitoring Indicators set forth in the Operational Manual; (b) the Regular 
Reports; (c) the Procurement Plan Report; and (d) the report on the Indigenous 
Peoples’ Strategic Framework. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar year (January 1 to December 31) and shall be furnished to the Bank by 
the Borrower through UCPS not later than four months after the end of the period 
covered by such reports.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than September 30, 2016. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, as further detailed in the Operational Manual, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare, through DGPP, and furnish to the Bank, through UCPS, not later than 
four months after the end of each calendar year, interim unaudited financial 
reports (Regular Reports) for the Project covering said calendar year, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through UCPS, shall have the Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions and 
of the Operational Manual.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover 
the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, or such other period agreed with 
the Bank. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  All goods and non consultant services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
 
-9- 
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non consultant services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Least-Cost Selection 
(e) Selection under Fixed Budget  
 
 
 
 
-10- 
 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
E. 
Special Provisions 
 
1. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern the procurement of goods, and non consultant services with National 
Competitive Bidding (“NCB”) procedures: 
 
(a) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
 
(b) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding 
documents or used for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
(c) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed 
in the invitation to bid.  
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to submit a bid under NCB without 
restriction and shall not be subject to any unjustified requirement which 
will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited to, the requirement 
to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding documents or any documentation 
related to such bidding documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a prerequisite 
for bidding. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower, through UCPS, shall use standard bidding documents 
and standard evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
-11- 
 
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern all employment of consultants: 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any 
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with 
Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian 
authorities as a condition of participation in said selection process. 
(c) 
The Borrower, through UCPS, shall use standard requests for proposals 
and standard evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to 
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association that are different from 
those required for Peruvian consultants. 
(e) 
No consultant hired for the Project, at the time he or she is carrying out 
his or her contractual obligations as consultant, may hold civil service 
office or any other position in any agency of the Borrower, nor shall such 
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position 
upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower through DGETP may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this 
Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance or 
reimburse Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed or reimbursed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed or reimbursed for Eligible Expenditures in each 
Category. 
 
-12- 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed or  reimbursed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)(a) Output Payments 
for Juntos under Part 1 
(a) of the Project 
 
(1)(b) Output Payments 
for Juntos under Part 1 
(b) of the Project 
3,600,000 
 
 
 
1,900,000  
 
100% of amounts calculated 
through the Formula IA   
 
 
100% of amounts calculated 
through the Formula IB  
(2) Health Facility 
Capitation Payments 
under Part 2 of the 
Project 
5,500,000 
100% of amounts calculated 
through the Formula II  
(3)(a)  Output 
Payments under Part 
3(a) of the Project 
 
(3)(b)  Output 
Payments under Part 
3(b) of the Project 
 
(3)(c)  Output 
Payments under Part 
3(c) of the Project 
 
(3)(d)  Output 
Payments under Part 
3(d) of the Project 
 
(3)(e)  Output 
Payments under Part 
3(e) of the Project 
5,300,000 
 
 
 
4,400,000 
 
 
 
2,000,000 
 
 
 
1,200,000 
 
 
 
1,100,000 
100% of amounts calculated 
through the Formula IIIA 
 
 
100% of amounts calculated 
through the Formula IIIB 
 
 
100% of amounts calculated 
through the Formula IIIC 
 
 
100% of amounts calculated 
through the Formula IIID 
 
 
100% of amounts calculated 
through the Formula IIIE 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
25,000,000 
 
 
 
-13- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made within twelve months prior 
to such date for Categories (1), (2) and (3). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2016. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
A. 
Independent Auditors 
 
The Borrower shall cause UCPS to hire independent auditors for the audits as 
referred to in Sections II. B.3 above no later than six months after the Effective 
Date; all under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
above. 
 
B. 
Mid-Term Review 
 
By June 30, 2013, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower 
through DGPP shall: (i) carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the 
implementation of operations under the Project, which shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) following such mid-term 
review, act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be 
agreed by the Bank.  
 
C. 
Annual Procurement External Reviews  
 
The Borrower, through UCPS, shall: 
1. 
have all the procurement records and documentation for each fiscal year of the 
Project reviewed, in accordance with appropriate procurement review principles, 
as detailed in the Operational Manual, by independent reviewers acceptable to 
the Bank; 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement external review report of 
 
-14- 
 
such review by said reviewers of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall  
reasonably request; and 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement records 
and documentation and the procurement review thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
 
-15- 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February 15, 2029. 
 
-16- 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
“CRED” means Control de Crecimiento y Desarrollo, the growth and 
development checkups provided for children below 36 months by Regional 
Governments in the Borrower’s territory. 
5. 
“DGPP” means Dirección General de Presupuesto Público, the Borrower’s 
national directorate for public budget within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance, in charge of the day-to-day coordination, supervision, 
technical verification, monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
 
6. 
“DGETP” means Dirección General de Endeudamiento y Tesoro Público, the 
Borrower’s national directorate for public debt within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance, in charge of presenting withdrawal applications to the 
Bank as further described in the additional instructions referred to in Section 
IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Eligible Budget Lines” means the Borrower’s eligible budget lines (líneas 
presupuestales), including operating expenditures under said budget lines, as 
selected by the Borrower under the objectives of the Program (finalidades), as 
further described in the Operational Manual. 
 
8. 
“ENDES” means Encuesta Demográfica y de Salud Familiar, the Borrower’s 
demographic and family health survey, as established and operating under the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 043-2001-PCM, dated April 30, 2001. 
 
9. 
“Executing Units” means the units within MINSA or the Regional Governments 
responsible for the management of budget resources in the Borrower’s health 
 
-17- 
 
sector, as created and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 28411 dated 
December 8, 2004. 
 
10. 
“Formula IA” means the following formula: the unit cost (as updated from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval) of the activities listed in the 
Operational Manual required for the affiliation of children younger than 12 
months to Juntos multiplied by Indicator IA. 
 
11. 
“Formula IB” means the following formula: the unit cost (as updated from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval) of the activities listed in the 
Operational Manual required for the verification of the health co-responsibilities 
for children younger than 36 months already affiliated to Juntos multiplied by 
Indicator IB. 
 
12. 
“Formula II” means the following formula:  
 
(a) for the first twelve months of the Project after Effectiveness: the amount 
resulting from adding the sum of multiplying the amount of 50% of the Health 
Facility Capitation Payments by the number of Eligible Health Facilities and the 
sum of multiplying the amount of 50% of Health Facility Capitation Payments by 
the number of Enrolled Health Facilities;  
 
(b) for the following twelve months after the period referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) above: the amount resulting from adding the sum of multiplying 
the amount of 50% of Health Facility Capitation Payments by the number of 
Enrolled Health Facilities and the sum of multiplying the amount of 50% of 
Health Facility Capitation Payments by Indicator II ; and 
 
(c) for the following thirty six months after the period referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) above: the amount resulting from multiplying the amount of 
100% of Health Facility Capitation Payments by Indicator II.  
 
For purpose of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) herein, the terms “Eligible Health 
Facility” means the primary health facility serving beneficiaries of Juntos and 
located in one of the Juntos Areas that regularly provides basic health and 
nutrition services, and “Enrolled Health Facility” means the Eligible Health 
Facility that has met the following requirements: (i) the pertinent planification in 
SIGA has been done and includes health and nutrition services provided to 
children under Juntos; and (ii) the estimated number of beneficiaries and unit 
cost of services have been reported in SIGA. 
 
13. 
“Formula IIIA” means the following formula: the unit cost (as updated from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval) of the activities listed in the 
Operational Manual required for the implementation of SIGA in each Executing 
Unit multiplied by Indicator IIIA. 
 
-18- 
 
 
14. 
“Formula IIIB” means the following formula: the unit cost (as updated from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval) of the activities listed in the 
Operational Manual required for the installation of a social monitoring nutrition 
mechanism in each municipality within a Regional Government multiplied by 
Indicator IIIB. 
 
15. 
“Formula IIIC” means the following formula: the unit cost (as updated from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval) of the activities listed in the 
Operational Manual required for the establishment of a monitoring system of the 
capacity of Health Facilities to deliver quality health and nutrition services 
Health Facility multiplied by Indicator IIIC. 
 
16. 
“Formula IIID” means the following formula: the unit cost (as updated from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval) of the activities listed in the 
Operational Manual required for the early affiliation of newborns (i.e. children 
younger than 12 months) to SIS multiplied by Indicator IIID. 
 
17. 
“Formula IIIE” means the following formula: the unit cost (as updated from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval) of the activities listed in the 
Operational Manual required for the verification of CRED information for 
children younger than 36 months multiplied by Indicator IIIE. 
 
18. 
“Formulae” means collectively Formula IA, Formula IB, Formula II, Formula 
IIIA, Formula IIIB, Formula IIIC, Formula IIID, and Formula IIIE. 
 
19. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
20. 
“Health Facility or Health Facilities” means Establecimientos de Salud, the 
health facilities pertaining to the Borrower’s Regional Government in the 
Borrower’s national territory. 
 
21. 
“Health Facility Capitation Payments” means a financial transfer to a health 
facility (analogous to a group health insurance premium), as updated from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval, which financial transfer is 
calculated by: (i) adding the unit cost of activities listed in the Operational 
Manual required for the provision of  basic health and nutrition services to be 
made available to each child; (ii) multiplying that sum by the number of children 
eligible for service in the Juntos Areas in which the health facility is located; and 
(iii) thereafter dividing said sum by the number of health facilities in the Juntos 
Areas, all under Part 2 of the Project, as further detailed in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
 
-19- 
 
22. 
“Indicators” means collectively Indicator IA, Indicator IB, Indicator II, Indicator 
IIIA, Indicator IIIB, Indicator IIIC, Indicator IIID, and Indicator IIIE, a set of 
indicators used in the Formulae as set forth in the Operational Manual.  
 
23. 
“Indicator IA” means the indicator specified in the Operational Manual for the 
calculation of Formula IA. 
 
24. 
“Indicator IB” means the indicator specified in the Operational Manual for the 
calculation of Formula IB. 
 
25. 
“Indicator II” means the indicator specified in the Operational Manual for the 
calculation of Formula II in respect of the second and third year of the Project. 
 
26. 
“Indicator IIIA” means the indicator specified in the Operational Manual for the 
calculation of Formula IIIA. 
 
27. 
“Indicator IIIB” means the indicator specified in the Operational Manual for the 
calculation of Formula IIIB. 
 
28. 
“Indicator IIIC” means the indicator specified in the Operational Manual for the 
calculation of Formula IIIC. 
 
29. 
“Indicator IIID” means the indicator specified in the Operational Manual for the 
calculation of Formula IIID. 
 
30. 
“Indicator IIIE” means the indicator specified in the Operational Manual for the 
calculation of Formula IIIE. 
 
31. 
“Indigenous Peoples Strategic Framework” means a strategic document that 
includes measures to overcome barriers to access services by the indigenous 
population in the Juntos Areas, dated December 28, 2009 as published on the 
website: http://www.mef.gob.pe/DNPP/PpR/ppe.php. 
 
32. 
“INEI” means Instituto National de Estadística e Informática, the Borrower’s 
national institute for statistics and informatics, as created and operating under the 
Borrower’s Law No 21372 dated December 30,1975, as amended. 
 
33. 
“INEI Agreement” means an agreement to be signed between the Borrower, 
through UCPS and INEI for the carrying out of Part 3 (c) of the Project as 
referred to under Paragraph 6 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
34. 
“Juntos” means the Borrower’s program designed to create direct support to the 
poorest in the Borrower’s territory as established and operating under the 
Borrower’s Supreme Decree Nº 032-2005-PCM, dated August 8, 2005. 
 
 
-20- 
 
35. 
“Juntos Areas” means the areas located in the Regional Governments where 
Juntos operates. 
 
36. 
“MINSA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health. 
 
37. 
“Monitoring Indicators” means a set of indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual which will constitute, inter alia, the basis for the Project Reports, as 
referred to in Section II.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
38. 
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project, satisfactory 
to the Bank to be adopted by the Borrower, which shall contain, inter alia:  (i) the 
functions and responsibilities for the personnel of DGPP in charge of daily 
coordination and monitoring for the Project; (ii) the functions and responsibilities 
for the personnel of UCPS in charge of daily financial management, 
procurement, administrative activities and audits for the Project; (iii) the 
functions and responsibilities of respectively Juntos, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
health, Regional Governments and SIS; (iv) the procedures for procurement 
(including the format for the Procurement Plan Report), as well as for financial 
management and audits for the Project; (v) flow and disbursement arrangements 
of Project funds; (vi) the methodology and the procedures to be followed to 
update unit costs under the Formulae; (vii) the definition of the Indicators and the 
Monitoring Indicators; and (viii) the Indigenous Peoples Strategic Framework, as 
said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
39. 
“Output” means any of the outputs eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan as set forth in the Operational Manual in respect of Parts 1 and 3 of the 
Project. 
 
40. 
“Output Payments” means payments made out of the proceeds of the Loan to 
finance Eligible Expenditures (i.e. operating expenditures, consultants’ services 
and goods) in respect of the Outputs as further detailed in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
41. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
42. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 20, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
43. 
“Procurement Plan Report” means any of the reports referred to in Section I.A.5 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as further detailed in the Operational Manual. 
 
 
-21- 
 
44. 
“Program” means “PAN” (Programa Articulado Nutricional), the Borrower’s 
nutritional program as established and operating under the Borrower’s Law Nº 
28927, dated December 7, 2007. 
 
45. 
“Regional Governments” means the three regional governments of Amazonas, 
Cajamarca and Huánuco in the Borrower’s territory or any other eligible 
additional regional government in the Borrower’s territory found acceptable to 
the Bank and to the Borrower and reflected in the Operational Manual. 
 
46. 
“Regular Meetings” means multi sectoral meetings chaired by DGPP and 
gathering representatives from Juntos, MINSA, UCPS, Regional Governments 
and SIS to be held in the intervals set forth in this Agreement and in the 
Operational Manual.  
 
47. 
“Regular Reports” means collectively all the reports presented by the Borrower 
as referred to under Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as further 
detailed in the Operational Manual and the additional instructions referred to in 
Section IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
48. 
“Result Agreement” means Convenio de Apoyo Presupuestarios (Convenio por 
Resultados) any of the agreements referred to in Section I.A.8 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, to be executed in accordance with the Borrower’s legal 
framework. 
 
49. 
“SIGA” means Sistema Integrado de Gestión Administrativa, the Borrower’s 
integrated administrative management system, as operating under the Borrower’s 
annual budget laws. 
 
50. 
“SIS” means Seguro Integral de Salud, the Borrower’s integral health insurance, 
as established and operating under the Borrower’s Law Nº 27657, dated January 
2002. 
 
51. 
“UCPS” means Unidad de Coordinación de Préstamos Sectoriales, the 
Borrower’s coordination unit for sectorial loans within its Ministry of Economy 
and Finance, or any other entity that would replace it during the implementation 
of the Project, in charge of carrying out day-to-day financial management and 
procurement for Parts 1 and 3 of the Project and presenting the Regular Reports 
to the Bank, as further described in the Operational Manual and the additional 
instructions referred to in Section IV A 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.. 
 
-22- 
 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
1. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-23- 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
 
