 
  
  
  
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
  
 
LOAN NUMBER 7987-AM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Additional Financing for the Health System Modernization Project (APL 2)) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated January 26, 2011  
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7987-AM 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated January 26, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”)  for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nineteen million Dollars 
($19,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 2 - 
  
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from 
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a 
Fixed Spread. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MOH in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower has opened a Project Account with an initial deposit of 
$200,000 equivalent. 
 
(b) 
The Project Operational Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been 
amended by the Project Steering Committee. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower has revised the Marz Hospital Optimization Plan to 
include Vanadzor hospital in Lori marz and Berd hospital in Tavush 
marz. 
- 3 - 
  
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia   
1 Melik-Adamyan Street 
Yerevan 0010 
Republic of Armenia  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
+374-10-524282 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
- 4 - 
  
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
 
 
By /s/ Vache Gabrielyan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Jean-Michel Happi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the MOH’s capacity for more 
effective system governance, scaling up family medicine-based primary health care and 
upgrading selected healthcare service delivery networks/infrastructure in the Selected 
Marzes to provide more accessible, quality and sustainable health care services to the 
population. 
 
The Project consists of the following additional parts to the Original Project: 
 
Part A: Optimization of Hospital Infrastructure 
 
Provision of technical assistance, goods, works, and training to improve the quality of 
hospital services, and construction and rehabilitation of additional hospitals and 
ambulatories in Selected Marzes. 
 
Part B: Institutional Development 
 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the regulatory 
oversight and management functions, including review of the existing health related 
legislation, and conducting independent financial audits of selected hospitals participating 
in the Project and  public disclosure of audit reports. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance, goods and training to improve the Borrower’s 
public expenditure management to build capacity in: (a) piloting of case-mix hospital 
financing system; (b) completing the costing of hospital services; and (c) improving the 
State Health Agency structure and functions. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to build for the development of 
national health policy and strategy, including developing a blood safety and an 
emergency care provision strategies. 
 
 
- 6 - 
  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Without limitation upon the provision of Section 3.01 and except as the Borrower 
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain a balance in the 
Project Account, until completion of the Project, with the amount adequate for 
the subsequent three (3) months of Project implementation. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Steering Committee consisting of the 
representatives of the MOH and other key stakeholders, with the responsibility 
for guiding and coordinating the implementation of the Program, defining terms 
of references, participating in technical evaluations and working directly with 
consultants on arrangements of strategic technical assistance. 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Hospital Optimization and Modernization 
Coordinating Committee. 
4. 
For the implementation of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause each of 
the Selected Marzes to: 
 
(a)  
enter into an implementation agreement among the MOH, Director of the 
hospital and the head of the Marz, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
implementation of the Marz Hospital Optimization Plan; and 
 
(b)  
exercise its rights under such agreements in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such agreements, or 
any provisions thereof without the Bank’s prior approval. 
5. 
For the implementation of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) establish 
a National Health Account Unit at the State Health Agency and allocate adequate 
state budget funds for conducting health expenditure survey in 2013; and (b) 
revise the charter of the National Information and Analytical Center to 
institutionalize the development of health sector performance reports starting in 
2012 and ensure adequate state funding provision accordingly.   
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
- 7 - 
  
C. 
Safeguards.  The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all measures 
necessary for the carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan in a timely 
manner. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than  six (6) months after the Closing Date of 
the Project. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
- 8 - 
  
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of goods and works for the Project, provided that the 
following provisions are complied with: 
 
(i) 
entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority 
shareholding shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are, and can be shown to be, legally 
and financially autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large and complex 
works projects; 
 
(iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past 
contract performance, financial, managerial and technical 
capabilities of bidders; 
 
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for 
their obligations; 
 
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening; 
- 9 - 
  
Procurement Method 
 
 
(vi) 
bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the 
conditions of clause 2.61 and 2.64 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met; 
 
(vii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary 
terms or expressed as a pass/fail criteria;  
 
(viii) 
advance Bank approval is required for any substantial 
modifications 
in 
the 
contract 
scope/conditions 
during 
implementation. 
 
(ix)      The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents, satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
(b)  Shopping 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-source Selection 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
- 10 - 
  
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed 
 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services Training and Operating 
Costs for the Project 
 
18,952,500 
75% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
 
47,500 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 
2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
19,000,000 
 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement 
 
3. The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
- 11 - 
  
SCHEDULE 3 
 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
 
Beginning February 15, 2021  
 
through February 15, 2035 
 
 
 
 
3.33% 
On August 15, 2035 
3.43% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
- 12 - 
  
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
- 13 - 
  
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan under the Original Project, as 
amended to include the activities under the additional financing, which was 
approved by the Borrower on July 16, 2010, satisfactory to the Bank, describing 
the environmental, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be 
applied in the implementation of the Project. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
6. 
“HPIU” means the Health Project Implementation Unit established and operating 
pursuant to the Ministry of Health Decree Number 764 dated October 22, 1996, 
or any legal successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“Marz Hospital Optimization Plan” means an updated plan to rationalize and 
consolidate existing health care facilities and health workforce at the Marz level 
as adopted by Marz authorities and approved by the Borrower on November 2, 
2006, as amended.  
 
8. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for the Health 
System Modernization Project between the Borrower and the International 
Development Association, dated March 9, 2007, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement (Credit No. 4267-AM). 
9. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
10. 
“Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred on account of the Project 
implementation such as salaries of staff members, except for those who are civil 
servants, office supplies, minor office equipment, field trips, consuming 
- 14 - 
  
materials, utilities, vehicle renting, operation and maintenance costs, mass media 
and printing costs, meetings and in-country travel costs,  communication costs, 
storage costs, reasonable banking charges and other costs directly associated with 
the Project implementation and acceptable to the Bank. 
 
11. 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, maintained by the Borrower in local currency and to be used for 
financing the Borrower’s contribution to the Project expenditures. 
 
12. 
“Project Operational Manual” means a revised manual satisfactory to the Bank, 
to be adopted by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, setting forth the implementation plan, operational and administrative 
procedures for the implementation of the Project, including concluding 
implementation agreements for hospital mergers, as such manual may be 
amended from time to time with prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
13. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 8, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Training” means expenses incurred by the PIU in connection with carrying out 
training  under the  Project, including travel costs and per diem for local trainees 
and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of facilities and equipment and 
training materials and related supplies. 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
- 15 - 
  
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
- 16 - 
  
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
  
 
