CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7963-AM 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(E-Society and Innovation for Competitiveness Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 26, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7963-AM 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 26, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty four million Dollars 
($24,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
- 2 -
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from 
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a 
Fixed Spread. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoE in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that any 
of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) below shall have occurred and be 
continuing: 
- 3 -
(a) 
any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund. 
 
(b) 
the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Bylaws have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Seed and Early 
Stage Venture Fund to perform any of its functions in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement occurs.  
 
ARTICLE - V TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.  
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia   
1 Melik-Adamyan Street 
Yerevan 0010 
Republic of Armenia  
 
Facsimile: 
+374-10-524282 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
- 5 -
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By /s/ Vache Gabrielyan 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jean-Michel Happi 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to address constraints to competitive e-Society and 
enterprise innovation in the Republic of Armenia by strengthening the underlying 
infrastructure and enabling environment. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:
E-Society Infrastructure Development
1. 
Nationwide Broadband Backbone and Government Network. (a) Technical 
assistance to NCFA and training to develop a nationwide broadband backbone 
and government network; and (b) provision of Broadband Networks  Financing 
to the Beneficiaries for development of nationwide broadband backbone and 
government network. 
 
2. 
Digital Citizen Program. (a) Technical assistance to EKENG to support the 
establishment of the certification authority and support for independent testing 
and verification of the e-identification and certification authority systems; and (b) 
purchasing information technology goods and provision of services, Training and 
Incremental Operating Costs  for establishing the certification authority. 
 
3. 
Computer for All Program. (a) Establishment and operation of a credit facility by 
PFIs to finance the Computer for All Program Sub-projects submitted by the 
Beneficiaries; and (b) technical assistance to EIF, including Training and 
Incremental Operating Costs, to implement the Computer for All Program. 
 
Part B:
Fostering Enterprise Innovation
1. 
Financial Support for Innovation in Knowledge and Technology-intensive Firms.
(a) 
Provision of: (i) Ideas Generation Small Grants to Beneficiaries for developing 
business plan and proof of concepts for innovative ideas; and (ii) provision of 
Innovation Matching Grants Beneficiaries for product or processes adaptation, 
improvement and development, both in accordance with the rules and principles, 
eligibility criteria, selection procedures and implementation arrangements set 
forth in the Grants Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
 Support for establishing of a Seed and Early Stage Venture 
Fund, including financing of management team remuneration 
and establishing an innovation brokerage team, in a manner and 
on terms acceptable to the Bank (which shall include the 
- 7 -
establishment of Venture Fund Bylaws, and any other corporate 
arrangement needed for the operation of the said fund); and 
 
(ii) 
financing of the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Subprojects 
to carry out technology innovation investments. 
 
2.  
Gyumri Technology Center. Provision of works, goods and consulting services, 
including Training and Incremental Operating Costs, for the establishment of a 
technology center in Gyumri to provide technology support and incubation 
services to local firms and entrepreneurs.  
3. 
Support to Information Technology/Knowledge-intensive Industry Development.
(a) (i) Establishment of an information technology (IT) sales force representation 
office for the information technology/knowledge-intensive industry; and (ii) 
provision of managerial secondments; and (b) provision of technical assistance 
and Training to firms in the IT/knowledge-intensive industry for skills 
development, certification and productivity improvement. 
 
Part C:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, goods, Training and Incremental Operating 
Costs to FFPMC, EKENG, EIF and NCFA and to assist in the Project 
implementation, including Project audit and technical audit of the Broadband 
Networks Beneficiaries, and financial management, monitoring and reporting. 
 
- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain, until 
the completion of the Project, the FFPMC, and ensure that the FFPMC functions 
at all times in a manner and with staffing and financial resources necessary and 
appropriate for the Project implementation, and satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) 
shall designate the FFPMC with the responsibility for the Project procurement, 
disbursement, financial management, monitoring and reporting,  and 
implementation of internal financial controls, maintenance of Project accounts 
and preparation of Project Reports. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Procedures and shall duly perform 
all its obligations under it and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Operational Procedures without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, within one month after the Project effectiveness, establish a 
Project Steering Committee, consisting of the representatives from all entities 
involved in the Project implementation, and maintain it until completion of the 
Project which will provide policy guidance and coordination of the Project 
activities implementation. 
 
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, the EKENG, EIF and NCFA and ensure that they 
function at all times in a manner and with staffing and financial resources 
necessary and appropriate for the Project implementation, and satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, one year after the establishment of the Sales Force 
Representation Office, furnish to the Bank an evidence showing that a private 
sector co-financing is available for Part B.3 (a) (i) of the Project on the terms and 
conditions as set forth in the Sales Force Representation Office Operational 
Manual. In case said covenant is not met by the Borrower, the Bank has a right to 
suspend disbursement under Category (3) in the table of Section IV.4 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
- 9 -
C. 
Subsidiary Finance Agreements  
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A.1 (b) and 3 and Part B.1 (a) and (b) of the 
Project, the Borrower shall make a part of the proceeds of the Loan available to 
the NCFA or PFIs or EIF or the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund, 
respectively, under subsidiary agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the NCFA or each PFI  or the EIF or the Seed and Early Stage 
Venture Fund, respectively, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, 
including those set forth in the Operational Procedures (“Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement”) and Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Finance Agreements 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreements or any of its provisions without prior approval of the Bank. 
 
D. 
Sub-financing (Broadband Networks Financing, Computer for All Program 
Sub-loan, Ideas Generation Grant, Innovation Matching Grant and Seed 
and Early Stage Venture Fund Sub-financing) 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the NCFA or PFIs or the EIF or the Seed and 
Early Stage Venture Fund make Sub-financing to Beneficiaries in accordance 
with terms and conditions, eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Procedures. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the NCFA or PFIs or the EIF or the Seed and 
Early Stage Venture Fund, respectively, make each Sub-financing under a Sub–
financing Agreement with each Beneficiary on terms and conditions set forth in 
the Operational Procedures, including the right to: 
 
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Sub-financing, or declare to be immediately due 
and payable all or any part of the amount of the Sub-financing 
then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of 
its obligations under the sub-financing agreement;  
 
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to:  
 
(A) 
carry out its Sub-project: (aa) with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, health 
and social standards and practices, satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (bb) in accordance with the provisions of the 
- 10 -
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of 
loan proceeds other than the Borrower; 
 
(B) 
procure the goods and works and to be financed out of 
the Sub-financing in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
 
(C) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-
project, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents; and 
 
(D) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all 
such information as the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing. 
 
E. 
Safeguards. The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the environmental framework which is an integral part of the 
Operational Procedures. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date of the 
Project. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
- 11 -
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Preparation Advance for the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be: (i) furnished to the Bank not later than six months after 
the end of such period; and (ii) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in 
a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II. B. 3 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall, one year after the first deposit into the Seed and Early Stage 
Venture Fund commercial account mentioned in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule 
is made either by the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund or the private investors, 
and every year thereafter, cause the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund to carry 
out an annual independent external audit in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards and auditors acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the Seed 
and Early Stage Venture Fund financial statements in order to ensure the proper 
use of Loan Proceeds. The audited Venture Fund Financial Statements for each 
such period shall be: (i) furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period; and (ii) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank. 
- 12 -
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of goods and works for the Project, provided that the 
following provisions are complied with: 
 
(i) 
entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority 
shareholding shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are, and can be shown to be, legally 
and financially autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large and complex 
works projects; 
- 13 -
(iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past 
contract performance, financial, managerial and technical 
capabilities of bidders; 
 
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for 
their obligations; 
 
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening; 
 
(vi) 
bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the 
conditions of clauses 2.61 and 2.64 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met; 
 
(vii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary 
terms or expressed as a pass/fail criteria;  
 
(viii) 
advance Bank approval is required for any substantial 
modifications 
in 
the 
contract 
scope/conditions 
during 
implementation; and 
 
(ix) 
the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
(b)  Shopping 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
(d) Loans to Financial Intermediaries 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
- 14 -
Procurement Method
(a) Fixed Budget Selection 
(b) Single Source Selection 
(c) Consultant’s Qualifications 
(d) Least Cost Selection 
(e) Selection Based on Individual Consultants 
(f) Selection of Consultants through Commercial Practices 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, Section 
IV.B.1 (e) of this Schedule, and Section 2.04 of the General Conditions, and 
pursuant to the provisions of the Disbursement Letter:  
 
(a) 
the Bank may, upon the Borrower’s request, and presentation to the Bank 
of evidence acceptable to the Bank showing that: (i) the Seed and Early 
Stage Venture Fund has been created as provided in Part B.1 (b) of the 
Project; (ii) a financial management assessment of the Seed and Early 
Stage Venture Fund has been carried out in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank; and (iii) the manager for the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund 
has been selected in a manner acceptable to the Bank, deposit into the 
Second Designated Account, an advance of the proceeds of the Loan up 
to an amount not to exceed $1,000,000 (the Authorized Advance) to 
finance Eligible Expenditures under Category (2) (d);  
 
(b) 
subsequent withdrawals of Authorized Advances to replenish the Second 
Designated Account, may be authorized by the Bank, provided that the 
- 15 -
Borrower, through MoF, shall have furnished to the Bank: (i) a request or 
requests for deposit into the Second Designated Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the Authorized Advance or the total 
aggregate amount mentioned herein; and (ii) evidence, acceptable to the 
Bank, showing that the private investors have made contributions to the 
Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund in an amount equal to 100%  of each 
amounts requested  for a subsequent advance immediately preceding said 
replenishment, and that said amount has been deposited into a 
commercial account to be opened and maintained by the Seed and Early 
Stage Venture Fund in a financial institution acceptable to the Bank, and 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the exclusive use of 
financing of the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Subprojects. The 
total amount of Authorized Advances shall not exceed $3,000,000 in the 
aggregate; and 
 
(c) 
the Borrower may withdraw, from time to time, from the Second 
Designated Account an amount equal to 100%  of each amounts 
requested for a subsequent advance and deposit the same into the 
commercial account mentioned in (b) (ii) above for the exclusive use of 
financing the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Subprojects.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, the Borrower, 
through the MoF, shall refund to the Bank, in a manner and on terms acceptable 
to the Bank, any amount of the Authorized Advances (mentioned in paragraph 2 
above) not used to finance Eligible Expenditures under said Category (2) (d), or 
the use of which is not accounted for, or reported by, the Closing Date.  
 
4. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed (exclusive of 
taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services, 
Training 
and 
Incremental Operating Costs for 
the Project 
 
5,940,000 
100% 
(2) Sub-financing: 
 
(a) under the Part A.1(b) of the 
7,500,000 
 
100% 
- 16 -
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed (exclusive of 
taxes) 
 
Project 
(Nationwide 
Broadband Backbone and 
Government Network) 
 
(b) under the Part A.3 of the 
Project (Computer for All 
Program) 
 
(c) under the Part B.1 (a) of the 
Project (Ideas Generation 
Grants 
and 
Innovation 
Matching Grants) 
 
(d) for Sub-projects under Part 
B.1 (b) of the Project (Seed 
and Early Stage Venture 
Fund)  
 
3,000,000 
 
900,000 
 
3,000,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
50% 
 
(3) Consultants’ services and 
Training under the Part B.3 (a) (i) 
of the Project 
 
600,000 
 
100% 
(4) Refund of the Preparation 
Advance 
 
3,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions 
(5) Front-end Fee 
 
60,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
24,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,228,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after September 2, 2010 (but in no case more than one year prior to the 
- 17 -
date of this Agreement) for Eligible Expenditures under the Category (1) 
in the table, provided that the pertinent obligations and/or conditions set 
forth in this Agreement, in respect of the relevant Eligible Expenditure, 
have been complied with or met;  
 
(b) 
for payments made to finance the Broadband Networks Subprojects 
under Category (2) (a), unless: (i) the NCFA Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the NCFA, 
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the Broadband Networks Financing 
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been approved by the 
Borrower; and (iii) the relevant Beneficiary has met the criteria set forth 
in the Broadband Networks Operational Manual, which criteria shall 
include, inter alia, that the corresponding Broadband Networks 
Financing Agreement has been signed by the respective parties thereto;  
(c) 
for payments made to finance the Computer for All Program Subproject 
under Category (2) (b), unless: (i) the PFI Subsidiary Finance Agreement 
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and  PFI/s, satisfactory to 
the Bank; (ii) the Computer for All Program Operational Manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been approved by the Borrower; (iii) the 
Borrower has selected vendor/s in accordance with the procedures 
established in the said Manual; and (iv) the relevant Beneficiary has met 
the criteria set forth in the Computer for All Program Operational 
Manual, which criteria shall include, inter alia, that the corresponding 
Computer for All Program Sub-loan Agreement has been signed by the 
respective parties thereto;  
(d) 
for payments made to finance any Ideas Generation Subproject or any 
Innovation Matching Subproject under Category (2) (c), unless: (i) the 
EIF  Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the EIF, satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the Grants 
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been approved by the 
Borrower; and (iii) the relevant Beneficiary has met the criteria set forth 
in the Grants Operational Manual, which criteria shall include, inter alia, 
that the corresponding Ideas Generation Grant Agreement or Innovation 
Matching Grant Agreement, respectively, has been signed by the 
respective parties thereto;  
(e) 
for payments made to finance any Venture Fund Subproject under 
Category (2) (d), unless: (i) the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund, satisfactory to the 
Bank; (ii) the conditions/obligations referred to in Section IV.A 2 of this 
Schedule have been complied with, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
- 18 -
(iii) the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Operational Manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been approved by the management of the 
company; and (iv) the Beneficiary has met the criteria set forth in the 
Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Operational Manual, which criteria 
shall include, inter alia, that the corresponding Venture Fund Sub-
financing Agreement has been signed by the respective parties thereto; 
and 
(f) 
 for payments made under Category (3), unless: (i) an evidence is 
furnished to the Bank that a management company for the office has 
been selected on a competitive basis, satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the 
Sales Force Representation Office Operational Manual has been 
approved by the Borrower, through EIF, satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each January15 and July15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2021  
 
through January 15, 2035 
 
3.33% 
On July 15, 2035 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
- 20 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
- 21 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means an individual or entity eligible, in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Procedures, to receive Sub-financing under 
Part A.1 (b) and 3 and Part B.1 (a) and (b) of the Project. 
3. 
“Broadband Networks Financing” means any financing made or proposed to be 
made by the NCFA to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Broadband 
Networks Financing under Part A. 1 (b) for carrying out of the Broadband 
Networks  Subprojects, also referred to as “Sub-financing”. 
4. 
“Broadband Networks Financing Agreement” ” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the NCFA, and the Beneficiary on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Broadband Networks Financing Operational Manual, also referred 
to as “Sub-financing Agreement”. 
5. 
“Broadband Networks Financing Operational Manual” means the manual to be 
prepared and approved by the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.B.1 (b) (ii), 
setting forth the operational and administrative procedures, including the 
environmental framework, in respect of the preparation, eligibility, selection, 
environmental screening, approval, financial management, disbursement and 
implementation and supervision of Sub-projects under Part A.1 (b) of the Project. 
 
6. 
“Broadband Networks Subproject” means a project eligible for financing under 
Part A.1 (b) of the Project. 
 
7. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
8. 
“Computer for All Program Operational Manual” means the manual for Part A. 3 
of the Project, prepared and approved by the Borrower pursuant to Section 
IV.B.1 (c) (ii),   setting forth the operational and administrative procedures, 
including the environmental framework, in respect of the preparation, eligibility, 
selection, 
environmental 
screening, 
approval, 
financial 
management, 
disbursement and implementation and supervision of Sub-loans under Part A.3 of 
the Project. 
- 22 -
9. 
“Computer for All Program Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the PFI and the Beneficiary on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Computer for All Program Operational Manual, also referred to as 
“Sub-financing Agreement”. 
 
10. 
“Computer for All Program Subproject” means a project eligible for financing 
under Part A.3 (a) of the Project. 
 
11. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
12. 
“Disbursement Letter” means the letter from the Bank to the Borrower of even 
date herewith concerning the additional instructions that the Bank may issue 
concerning the withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan, and referred to in Section 
IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said letter may be revised by the Bank 
from time to time.  
 
13. 
“EIF” means the Enterprise Incubator Foundation of the Borrower established 
pursuant to a Decree # 1165 dated November 27, 2001 of the Borrower’s Cabinet 
Minister. 
 
14. 
“EKENG” means the open joint stock company, established by the Borrower’s 
Cabinet Ministers Decree No. 494 N dated April 30, 2009 and chaired by the 
Minister of Economy and responsible for E-governance infrastructure projects.  
 
15. 
“FFPMC” means the Foreign Financial Projects Management Center within the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to the 
Minister of Finance and Economy’s Decree No. 37, dated March 29, 2000, which 
will be responsible for the implementation of the Project, including the fiduciary 
tasks under the Project. 
 
16. 
“First Designated Account” means the Borrower’s account referred to in Section 
II (vi) (i) of the Disbursement Letter into which the Bank may, at the Borrower’s 
request, deposit the proceeds of the Loan assigned to finance Part A, Part B.1 (a), 
2 and 3 and Part C of the Project. 
 
17. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
18. 
“Grants Operational Manual” means the manual to be prepared and approved by 
the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.B.1 (d) (ii), setting forth an amount, terms 
and conditions, eligibility criteria and selection procedures and implementation, 
monitoring and reporting of respective Grants under Part B.1 (a) (i) and (ii) of the 
Project. 
- 23 -
19. 
“Ideas Generation Grant” means any grant made or proposed to be made by the 
EIF to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Ideas Generation Grant for the 
carrying out of an Ideas Generation Subprojects, also referred to as “Sub-
financing”. 
 
20. 
“Ideas Generation Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the EIF, and the Beneficiary on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Grants Operational Manual, also referred to as “Sub-financing Agreement”. 
 
21. 
“Ideas Generation Subproject” means a project eligible for financing under Part 
B.1 (a) (i) of the Project. 
 
22. 
Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred on account of the 
Project implementation by the FFPMC, EIF, EKENG and NCFA such as office 
supplies, minor office equipment, vehicle rental,  operation and maintenance, 
costs for fuel, equipment and software maintenance, literature, and FFPMC, EIF, 
EKENG and NCFA staff salaries (excluding Government officials’ salaries) 
training, field trips, meetings, lodging, per diem and travel costs related to the 
Project, communication costs, utilities, mass media and printing services, 
reasonable banking charges and advertisement costs, and other expenses that may 
be agreed with the Bank during the Project implementation. 
 
23. 
“Innovation Matching Grant” means any grant made or proposed to be made by 
the EIF to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Innovation Matching Grant for 
the carrying out of Innovation Matching Subprojects, also referred to as “Sub-
financing”. 
 
24. 
“Innovation Matching Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the EIF and the Beneficiary on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Grant Operational Manual, also referred to as “Sub-financing Agreement”. 
 
25. 
“Innovation Matching Subproject” means a project eligible for financing under 
Part B.1 (a) (ii) of the Project. 
 
26. 
“Management Fee” means the management team remuneration under Part B. 1 
(b) (i) of the Project, as set forth in the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund 
Operational Manual. 
 
27. 
“MoE” means the Ministry of Economy of the Borrower. 
 
28. 
“MoF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower. 
 
- 24 -
29. 
“NCFA” means the National Competitiveness Foundation of the Borrower 
established by the Borrower’s Cabinet Ministers Decree No. 1324-A dated 
November 8, 2007. 
 
30. 
“Operational Procedures” means the Broadband Networks Operational Manual or 
Computer for All Program Operational Manual or Grants Operational Manual or 
Venture Fund Operational Manual, as the case may be, setting forth eligibility 
criteria and procedures for selection, appraisal and approval of Beneficiaries and 
Sub-projects to be financed under the Project, as well as the procedures for 
administration and monitoring of implementation of Sub-projects. 
 
31. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
32. 
“PFI” means a financial institution, selected by the Borrower and the Bank, to 
participate in the Part A.3 of the Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria 
and selection procedures set forth in the Computer for All Program Operational 
Manual. 
 
33. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 7, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
34. 
 “Project Steering Committee” means a Management Board to be established by 
the Borrower pursuant to the Government Decree No. 765 dated December 27, 
1999 and referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
35. 
“Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter 
Agreement (Preparation Advance No. P457-AM) signed on behalf of the Bank on 
May 17, 2010 and on behalf of the Borrower on June 11, 2010. 
 
36. 
“Sales Force Representation Office Operational Manual” means the manual to be 
prepared and approved by the Borrower, setting forth the implementation 
principles and administrative and financial management procedures for the office 
operation. 
 
37. 
“Second Designated Account” means the Borrower’s account referred to in 
Section II. (vi) (ii) of the Disbursement Letter (as said term is defined above) into 
which the Bank may, at the Borrower’s request, deposit the total amount of the 
Authorized Advances referred to in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement on the terms provided in said Section IV.A.2.  
 
- 25 -
38. 
“Subsidiary Finance Agreement” means the NCFA Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement or the PFI Subsidiary Finance Agreement or the EIF Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement or the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the NCFA or 
each PFI or the EIF or the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund, respectively, 
pursuant to Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement. 
 
39. 
“Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund” means a venture fund to be established in 
accordance with the Borrower’s corporations law, and governed by the Civil 
Code of the Borrower No. HO239 dated 01/01/1999. 
 
40. 
“Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Bylaws” means the bylaws, acceptable to 
the Bank that will govern the daily operation of the Seed and Early Stage Venture 
Fund. 
 
41. 
“Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Sub-financing” means any financing in the 
form of a loan, grant or equity investment made or proposed to be made by the 
Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund to an eligible Beneficiary for a Seed and 
Early Stage Venture Fund Sub-project, and to be financed out of the procedures 
of the Loan. 
 
42. 
 “Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Sub-financing Agreement” means any of 
the agreement to be entered into between the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund 
and each Beneficiary on the terms and conditions set forth in the Seed and Early 
Stage Venture Fund Operational Manual, also referred to as Sub-financing 
Agreement. 
43. 
“Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Operational Manual” means the manual for 
Part B.1 (b) (i) of the Project, prepared and approved by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section IV.B.1 (e) (iii), setting forth the operational and administrative 
procedures, including the environmental framework, in respect of the 
preparation, eligibility, selection, environmental screening, approval, financial 
management, disbursement and implementation and supervision of the Seed and 
Early Stage Venture Fund Subprojects. 
44. 
 “Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Subproject” means a project eligible for 
financing under Part B.1 (b) (i) of the Project.  
45. 
“Sub-financing” means any financing in the form of a loan or grant or equity 
investment made or proposed to be made by the NCFA or the PFI or the EIF or 
the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund, respectively, to an eligible Beneficiary 
for a Sub-project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
- 26 -
46. 
“Sub-financing Agreements” means collectively the Broadband Networks 
Financing Agreement, the Computer for All Program Sub-loan Agreement, the 
Ideas Generation Grant Agreement, the Innovation Matching Grant Agreement 
and the Seed and Early Stage Venture Fund Sub-financing Agreement. 
 
47. 
“Sub-project” means a specific project eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of the Loan in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Procedures 
to be carried out by a Beneficiary under Part A.1 (b) and 3 and Part B.1 (a) and 
(b) of the Project using a Sub-financing. 
 
48. 
“Training” means expenses incurred by the FFPMC, the EIF, EKENG and the 
NCFA in connection with carrying out training activities under the Project, 
including travel costs and per diem for local trainees and trainers, study tours and 
workshops, rental of facilities and equipment and training materials and related 
supplies. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
- 27 -
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
