 
 
 
   CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
  LOAN NUMBER 8107-MX 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Savings and Credit Sector Consolidation  
and Financial Inclusion Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 13, 2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 13, 2011, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”) as represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).   
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), has requested the 
Bank to assist in financing the Project. 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan 
(as set forth in the table of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes 
of supporting the Project) shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the 
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower’s 
representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs 
the Bank, the Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director General 
of BANSEFI, or the Director General Adjunto de Banca Institucional of 
BANSEFI or any person or persons whom such representative shall designate in 
writing.  
 
 
-2- 
 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
-3- 
 
 
  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following:  
 
(a) 
that BANSEFI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Mandato Agreement. 
 
(b) 
that the BANSEFI Organic Law shall have been amended, abrogated, or 
failed to enforce in a manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Project.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that 
any of the events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Mandato Agreement has been duly executed by the parties thereto;  
 
(b) 
the BANSEFI Guidelines have been updated in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank; and  
 
(c) 
the Borrower, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by 
Borrower counsel acceptable to the Bank, and BANSEFI, in a separate 
legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by BANSEFI counsel 
acceptable to the Bank, indicate that the Mandato Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 
 
-4- 
 
 
the Borrower and BANSEFI and is legally binding upon the Borrower 
and BANSEFI in accordance with the Mandato Agreement’s terms. 
 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 31, 2013. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
 
 
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre 3, Piso 3 
 
Colonia Guadalupe Inn C.P. 01020 
 
 
México, D.F. 
 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-5- 
 
 
 
 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, United Mexican States, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Alejandro Díaz de León 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
-6- 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to support the: (a) consolidation of the savings 
and credit institutions (SCIs); and (b) deepening of financial inclusion in Selected Areas 
and Selected Locations. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
  
Part A. Consolidation and Strengthening of SCIs 
 
1. 
Provision of:  
 
(i)  
support to carry out assessments of selected SCE’s financial and 
managerial conditions to determine, inter alia, whether: (i) an SCE 
qualifies for authorization by the CNBV to operate as a Certified SCE; 
(ii) an SCE requires technical assistance and training for its strengthening 
or restructuring in order to qualify for such authorization; or (iii) an SCE 
should be merged or liquidated; and  
 
(ii) 
technical assistance and training to selected Certified SCEs and SCEs to 
support their overall institutional strengthening and/or services 
improvement. 
 
2. 
Provision of goods, technical assistance and training to strengthen the 
Confederation, Federations, Self-regulatory Bodies, Auxiliary Supervision 
Committees and Deposit Protection Funds to, inter alia:   
 
(i) 
allow Federations to effectively provide technical assistance and training 
to their member entities and supervise them;  
 
(ii) 
allow the Confederation, Federations, Self-regulatory Bodies, Auxiliary 
Supervision Committees and Deposit Protection Funds to improve 
strategic planning, internal controls, governance aspects, supervision 
arrangements and procedures; and 
 
(iii) 
allow Federations to provide legal advice, including on regulatory and 
tax-related matters,  to their member entities, as needed. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of sector-related studies and evaluation studies to establish a 
consolidated database on SCEs, including, inter alia, information related to 
SCEs’ financial performance and status of compliance with legal requirements 
under the LACP and the LRASCAP. 
 
 
-7- 
 
 
4. 
Carrying out of dissemination activities related to certification and reporting 
requirements required under the LACP and the LRASCAP.  
 
Part B.  Broadening Access to Financial Services and Products 
 
1. 
(i) 
provision of technical assistance and training to selected 
Certified SCEs  and selected SCEs in Transition to increase their membership 
base in  Selected Areas and to support the design and implementation of an 
 
improvement program to allow them to increase their membership base 
 
in said areas; 
 
(ii) 
provision of technical assistance and training to BANSEFI to support the 
qualitative control, and the verification of the increase of the membership 
base of selected SCEs; 
 
(iii) 
carrying out of studies and assessments to, inter alia, evaluate the nature, 
perception and participation of the new membership in Selected Areas; 
and 
 
(iv) 
carrying out of dissemination activities under Part B.1 of the Project. 
 
2. 
(i)  
expansion of BANSEFI’s clients base in Selected Locations 
through the  
provision of support from Banking Agents and processing of 
financial  
transactions through the Selected Banking Agents in said 
Selected  
Locations;  
 
(ii) 
carrying out of a study on the implementation of Part B.2(i) of the 
Project and development of a strategy for scaling-up the activities under 
Part B.2(i) of the Project based on said study; and 
 
(iii)  
provision of support for the dissemination to clients of new financial 
services to be provided by Selected Banking Agents.  
 
3. 
Expansion of the range of financial services to be provided to SCEs and 
individual clients through:  
 
(i) 
the provision of technical assistance and training to BANSEFI to 
improve the operation of its lines of credit to SCEs, including, inter alia, 
the carrying out of a study related to  financial sector needs and 
BANSEFI’s strategic focus;  
 
(ii) 
the strengthening of  the L@ Red de la Gente Network to offer an 
expanded range of financial services to the members of BANSEFI and/or 
SCEs (including, inter alia, the carrying out of studies related to 
governance and customer relationship management), the provision of 
 
-8- 
 
 
technical assistance and training to SCEs to allow them to join the L@ 
Red de la Gente Network, and the carrying out of a market study to 
analyze the Borrower’s financial sector need for innovative financial 
products;   
 
(iii) 
the carrying out of a pilot program for mobile phone banking operation 
targeted to BANSEFI clients, and the development of a strategy to 
potentially scale-up said pilot to non-BANSEFI members; and 
 
(iv) 
the provision of support for the dissemination of the expanded range of 
services to be provided by the L@ Red de la Gente Network and the 
mobile phone banking pilot referred to in Part B.3(ii)(iii) of the Project. 
 
4. 
Provision of financial education through: 
 
(i) 
technical assistance and training, including workshops and seminars, 
directed to build capacity on dissemination of financial information in 
civil society and sector organizations;  
 
(ii) 
(a) educating the general public on financial services, including the 
dissemination of information on financial services provided by 
BANSEFI, the Selected Banking Agents, and by other sector 
organizations; and (b) the maintenance of BANSEFI’s website 
(www.finanzasparatodos.org.mx) to provide guidance on financial 
topics; 
 
(iii) 
the development of materials focused on financial education to be 
distributed at training events, workshops and seminars, including, inter 
alia, materials targeting children, women and indigenous peoples; and 
 
(iv) 
the carrying out of studies to evaluate the impact of the financial 
education activities  referred to in this Part B.4 of the Project.  
 
Part C.   Strengthening BANSEFI’s Capacity  
 
1. 
(i)  
provision of services to expand the technological capacity of 
BANSEFI,  
including its information technology platform’s mainframe, to 
enhance  
its processing and storage capacity and efficiency; and 
 
(ii) 
provision of technical assistance and training to SCEs or any other 
financial institution that will be adopting BANSEFI’s information 
technology platform. 
 
2. 
Provision of training for BANSEFI’s staff on topics related to this Project. 
 
 
-9- 
 
 
(i) 
Provision of support for the dissemination of the functional capabilities 
of BANSEFI’s information technology platform and operational and 
financial benefits.  
 
(ii) 
Carrying out of a campaign to strengthen the BANSEFI brand as a 
development bank. 
 
Part D.  Project Management 
 
Provision of technical assistance, training and material support to BANSEFI’s 
staff, consultants and providers of non-consulting services in order to assist them in the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
-10- 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements  
1. 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to maintain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, a team which shall be responsible for: (i) the 
implementation of the Project; and (ii) the overall procurement, financial 
management, audit, monitoring and evaluation, reporting, and safeguards aspects 
of the Project.  
2. 
The team referred to in paragraph A.1 above shall be headed by the Director 
General of BANSEFI or any other representative designated in writing by 
BANSEFI, and consist of: (i) staff in adequate numbers, qualifications and 
experience; and (ii) consultants and providers of non-consulting services 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement on the basis of terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The functions and resources of the team referred to in paragraph A.1 above shall 
be sufficient and satisfactory to the Bank at all times during Project 
implementation.  
B. 
Mandato Agreement  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall enter into a contract (the Mandato Agreement) with 
BANSEFI, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
(a) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, BANSEFI agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower and BANSEFI agree to abide by, and carry out the Project 
in accordance with, the provisions of this Agreement, including the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, and the Operational Manual;  
 
(c) 
the Borrower shall have the right to, in case of fraud or corruption (as 
defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the early 
termination of the Mandato Agreement, or temporarily suspend its 
 
-11- 
 
 
effects, or, if applicable, require the restitution of funds transferred to 
BANSEFI under said Mandato Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
the Borrower agrees to cooperate fully with BANSEFI (in its capacity as 
financial agent) to ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply with all of 
BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in this Section. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Mandato Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank 
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any provision of the Mandato Agreement. In case of any conflict 
between the terms of the Mandato Agreement and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Other Implementation Arrangements  
 
1. 
With respect to Parts A.1, A.2, B.3(ii) and C.1(ii) of the Project, and upon 
approval by BANSEFI  (the Acceptance Letter) of any given SCI Proposal, the 
Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to: 
 
(a) 
either:  
 
(A) select individual consultants and/or consulting firms in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; or  
 
(B) ensure that said SCI: (i) (A) selects individual consultants or 
consulting firms in accordance with the BANSEFI Guidelines and 
the pertinent provisions of Section III of this Schedule; and (B) 
thereafter, enters into an agreement with said individual consultant or 
consulting firm under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank 
(using the model contract set forth in the BANSEFI Guidelines); and 
(ii) complies with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
and the Operational Manual; as the case may be; and 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement,  the pertinent Acceptance Letter and the 
BANSEFI Guidelines, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
2. 
With respect to Part B.1(i) and (iv) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
BANSEFI to:  
 
 
 
-12- 
 
 
(a) 
select providers of non-consulting services or consulting firms, in 
accordance with the provisions of  Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, to provide the technical assistance referred to in said Part 
B.1(i) of the Project;  
 
(b) 
enter into an agreement in writing with each said provider of non-
consulting services or consulting firm (using a model contract 
satisfactory to the Bank) so that they enter into a written agreement with 
a selected SCE (selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria  
satisfactory to the Bank) to provide each Selected SCE with the technical 
assistance referred to in Part B.1(i) and B.1(iv) of the Project in exchange 
for said selected SCE commitment to implement the relevant 
improvement program;  
 
(c) 
pay said consulting firm for the services they render under their contracts 
with BANSEFI referred to in -paragraph (2) (b) above, all pursuant to a 
payment-for-results regime agreed between BANSEFI and the Bank and 
reflected in the contracts referred to above; 
(d) 
systematically monitor the agreements between said consulting firms and 
the SCEs in order to verify compliance with the performance standards 
and targets agreed between the provider of non-consulting services or 
consulting firm and the SCE as set forth in the agreement referred to in 
subparagraph (2) (b) above; and 
(e) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each contract, 
referred to in paragraph (2) (b) above, with the providers  of non-
consulting services or consulting firms also referred to therein, in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  In case of any conflict between the terms of any of 
the contracts referred to in paragraph (2) (b) above and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
With respect to Part B.2(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to:  
 
(a) 
enter into a separate  agreement  in writing with each Selected Banking 
Agent (the Selected Banking Agent Agreement) whereby the pertinent 
Selected Banking Agent shall agree to act, through its different stores 
and/or outlets, as a banking agent for BANSEFI to, inter alia, process the 
financial transactions of BANSEFI’s clients referred to in Part B.2(i) of 
the Project; 
 
 
-13- 
 
 
(b) 
pay each Selected Banking Agent  using BANSEFI’s own funds and not 
Loan proceeds, a fee for the services its stores and/or outlets render 
under the Selected Banking Agent Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Selected 
Banking Agent Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. In case of any 
conflict between the terms of the Selected Banking Agent Agreement 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
D. 
Operational Manual  
1. 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to: (i) implement the Project in accordance 
with an operational manual satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) cause all entities 
involved in the implementation of the Project to do so in accordance with 
relevant sections of said manual, which shall include, inter alia: 
(a) 
the detailed description of all Project implementation activities, their 
sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmark in relation 
thereto; 
(b)  
the Project administrative, financial, accounting, auditing, procurement 
and disbursement procedures, including all relevant standard documents; 
(c) 
the selection criteria for SCIs to participate in Parts A.1, A.2, B.3(ii) and 
C.1(ii) of the Project; 
(d) 
the selection criteria for SCEs to participate in Part B.1(i) of the Project, 
including, in the case of an SCE in Transition, the communication by 
said SCE to BANSEFI, through its improvement program, of its 
intention to obtain authorization by the CNBV; 
(e) 
the processing arrangements and the responsible departments within 
BANSEFI in charge of providing the technical assistance referred to in 
Parts A.1, A.2 and Part B.1 of the Project, including the model contracts 
to be used; 
(f) 
the processing arrangements and the responsible departments within 
BANSEFI for the selection of the Selected Banking Agents to be used in 
the implementation of Part B.2(i) of the Project; 
(g) 
the IPPF for the Project; 
(h) 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
(i) 
the BANSEFI Guidelines;  
 
-14- 
 
 
(j)  
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the Project; 
 
and 
(k) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or otherwise fail 
to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
E. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
F. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the IPPF. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable 
to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end 
of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause BANSEFI to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause BANSEFI to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
 
-15- 
 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and non-consulting services. All goods and non-consulting services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4.  
Special Provisions. The Borrower, through BANSEFI, shall: (a) supply the 
SEPA with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 
forty-five (45) days after the date of this Agreement; and (b) update the 
Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as needed through the duration of the 
Project, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and 
supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated Procurement 
Plan immediately thereafter. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and non-consulting services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
 
-16- 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(a)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-source Selection  
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines  for 
the selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
 
-17- 
 
 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of  
Expenditures to be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
(1) Goods, Operating Costs, 
Training, Consultants' 
Services and non-consulting 
services (except for non-
consulting services and 
Consultants' Services under 
Parts B.1 (i) and B.1(iv) of 
the Project)  
 
65,350,623 
53% 
(2) Consultants’ services 
and non-consulting services 
under 
Parts 
B.1(i) 
and 
B.1(iv) of the Project 
 
34,400,000 
40% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
249,377 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 
(b) 
of 
the 
General 
Conditions 
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
premium 
 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
100,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made for Eligible Expenditures prior to this date but 
on or after January 1, 2011 (but in no case more than one year prior to the date of 
this Agreement). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2015. 
 
 
-18- 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on March 15, 
2023. 
 
 
-19- 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Acceptance Letter” means BANSEFI’s written notification to any given SCI 
communicating BANSEFI’s approval of the pertinent SCI Proposal in 
accordance with the BANSEFI Guidelines.  
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
3. 
“Auxiliary Supervision Committee” means any of the committees charged by 
LACP and the LRASCAP with the responsibility of exercising regulatory 
supervision ofSCEs, which responsibility is auxiliary to that exercised by the 
CNBV. 
 
4. 
“BANSEFI” means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, 
Sociedad Nacional de Crédito Institución de Banca de Desarrollo, a Mexican 
development bank created pursuant to the BANSEFI Organic Law (or any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank) acting as the Borrower’s financial 
agent for purposes of the Loan and as the entity responsible for implementation 
of the Project. 
5. 
“BANSEFI Guidelines” means BANSEFI’s “Lineamientos de Operación”, 
acceptable to the Bank, which set forth the guidelines for the implementation of 
Parts A.1, A.2, B.3(ii) and C.1(ii)  of the Project, as well as the guidelines for 
providing training to BANSEFI’s staff under Part C.2 of the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
6. 
 “BANSEFI Organic Law” means Ley Orgánica del Banco del Ahorro Nacional 
y Servicios Financieros, the Borrower’s law that created BANSEFI, as said law 
was published on June 1, 2001 in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial 
de la Federación); and said term includes the regulations to said law, as said law 
and regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement. 
7. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
8. 
“Certified SCE” means any SCE which, having met relevant regulatory 
requirements, has been authorized by the CNBV to operate as a certified entity 
pursuant to the LACP and the LRASCAP. 
 
 
-20- 
 
 
9. 
“CNBV” means Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, the Borrower’s 
National Banking and Securities Commission. 
 
10. 
“Confederation” means Confederación, an entity with separate legal personality, 
consisting of a voluntary association of Federations.  
 
11. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
12. 
“Deposit Protection Fund” means Fondos de Protección, any of the trusts 
established on December 11, 2009 pursuant to Chapter VI of the LACP and Title 
IV of the LRASCAP. 
 
13. 
“DICONSA” means “DICONSA, S.A. de C.V.” a company in which the 
Borrower controls the majority of its shares, originally incorporated on April 28, 
1986 with the modifications approved by the DICONSA’s shareholders through 
the date of this Agreement (or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank).  
 
14. 
“Federation” means Federación, an entity, with separate legal personality, 
consisting of a voluntary association of SCEs or SCEs in Transition.  
 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
16. 
“IPPF” means the Borrower’s indigenous peoples planning framework dated July 
22, 2011 and published in BANSEFI’s website on July 25, 2011, referred to in 
Section I.F. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) 
measures to be taken during the implementation of the Project to eliminate or 
offset adverse social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels, (ii) 
guidelines and  procedures for the preparation and implementation of indigenous 
peoples plans to ensure their participation in the Project; and (iii) the actions 
needed to implement the measures and procedures referred in (i) and (ii) above, 
including monitoring and institution strengthening activities, and as it may be 
further amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, 
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework. 
 
17. 
“LACP” means Ley de Ahorro y Crédito Popular, the Borrower’s popular 
savings and credit law, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on June 4, 2001 as amended through August 21, 2009, 
as said law may be amended from time to time. 
 
18. 
“L@ Red de la Gente Network” means the network alliance between BANSEFI 
and SCEs and SCEs in Transition offering, inter alia, the following services: 
national and international remittances, third party payments and micro-insurance, 
 
-21- 
 
 
all pursuant the provisions of a trust agreement (Contrato de Fideicomiso No. 
10055) dated October 20, 2003. 
 
19. 
“LRASCAP” means Ley para Regular las Actividades de las Sociedades 
Cooperativas de Ahorro y Préstamo, the Borrower’s law that regulates the 
activities of savings and loan cooperatives, published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación) on August 13, 2009, as said law may 
be amended from time to time. 
 
20. 
“Mandato Agreement” means the contract referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement which terms and conditions, include, inter alia, the 
obligation of BANSEFI to implement the Project.  
 
21. 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operating expenses incurred 
by BANSEFI, on account of Project implementation, supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation, including costs of office operation and maintenance, travel and 
supervision costs, per diem, but excluding salaries of BANSEFI officials and 
public servants of the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
22. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual referred to in Section I.D.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes 
and schedules to such manual. 
 
23. 
“PEMEX” means Petróleos Mexicanos, a Borrower’s decentralized entity (with 
separate legal personality), established by a Borrower’s decree, dated June 7, 
1938, and regulated by, inter alia, the Borrower’s Petróleos Mexicanos Law (Ley 
de Petróleos Mexicanos) published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on November 28, 2008.  
 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 26, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
26. 
“SCE” means any of the following savings and credit entities:  a Sociedad 
Financiera Popular, a Sociedad Financiera Comunitaria, a Organismo de 
Integración Financiera Rural or a Sociedad Cooperativa de Ahorro y Préstamo, 
referred to in Article 3 of the LACP and Article 2 of the LRASCAP and which is 
subject to the provisions of the LACP and LRASCAP. 
 
 
-22- 
 
 
27. 
“SCE in Transition” means a SCE which has started the process to obtain 
authorization by CNBV to operate as a certified entity pursuant to the LACP and 
the LRASCAP. 
 
28. 
“SCI” means any of the following savings and credit institutions: an SCE 
(including an SCE in Transition), a Confederation, a Federation, a Self-
regulatory Body, an Auxiliary Supervision Committee or a Deposit Protection 
Fund, which is subject to the provisions of the LACP and LRASCAP. 
 
29. 
“SCI Proposal” means any proposal presented by an SCI to BANSEFI, for 
approval thereof in accordance with the provisions of the BANSEFI Guidelines, 
to benefit from the provision of technical assistance and/or training under Parts 
A.1, A.2, B.3(ii) and C.1(ii) of the Project, which proposal shall include, inter 
alia, a written representation by said SCI to comply with provisions of the 
BANSEFI Guidelines. 
 
30. 
“Selected Area” means any marginal area with population of less than 100,000 
inhabitants within the Borrower’s territory. 
 
31. 
“Selected Banking Agents” means a financial agent (e.g. DICONSA, and 
PEMEX’ gas station outlets) agreed upon with the Bank, to be hired by 
BANSEFI to process BANSEFI client’s financial transactions (including, inter 
alia, the payment of certain Borrower’s transfer programs and other services such 
as remittances and third party electronic payments) as referred to in Part B.2 of 
the Project. 
32. 
“Selected Banking Agent Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
C.3(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
33. 
“Selected Location” means locations to be determined based on the eligibility 
criteria defined in the Operational Manual.  
34. 
“Self-regulatory Body” means an Organismo Autoregulatorio referred to in 
Article 113 of the LACP which is responsible for the implementation of conduct 
and operation standards among its members. 
35. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
36. 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s 
Finance and Public Credit Secretariat. 
37. 
“Training” means the reasonable expenditures incurred by BANSEFI with 
respect to: (i) travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers 
and trainees in connection with their training; (ii) fees charged by consultants 
 
-23- 
 
 
serving as trainers; (iii) reasonable course fees charged by academic institutions; 
(iv)  training facility and equipment rental expenses; and (v) training material 
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise 
covered under this paragraph.  
 
 
 
