 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8066-IN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor – I Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
INDIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated October 27, 2011  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 27, 2011, between INDIA (the “Borrower”)  
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the “Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nine hundred and seventy five 
million Dollars ($975,000,000) (the “Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (the “Loan”), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out by DFCCIL in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that 
DFCCIL’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, dated October 23, 2006, 
has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of DFCCIL to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary, or any Additional Secretary, 
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department 
of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
 
953-31-66175  
91-11-23094075 
New Delhi 
 
FINE IN 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 4 - 
 
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
INDIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Venu Rajamony 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Roberto Zagha 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide additional rail transport capacity, 
improve service quality and higher freight throughput on the 343 km Khurja to Kanpur 
section of the Eastern rail corridor; and (ii) develop the institutional capacity of DFCCIL 
to build and maintain the DFC infrastructure network. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following components: 
 
Part 1. Design and Construction of Khurja-Kanpur Rail Corridor 
 
Design, construction and commissioning of 343 km of double track electrified 
railway on the Khurja–Kanpur section of the Eastern DFC, including related 
consultancy services under this Part 1 of the Project.    
 
Part 2. Institutional Development 
  
 
Institutional development to assist DFCCIL and MOR to develop their 
capabilities to best utilize heavy haul freight systems. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation, Institutional and Other Arrangements 
A.       To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by DFCCIL, the Borrower shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to DFCCIL under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Borrower, through MOR, and DFCCIL, satisfactory to the Bank (the 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”).  The Borrower shall, through MOR, provide its 
counterpart contribution as required by the Project to DFCCIL in a timely and 
adequate manner.  The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
B. 
The Borrower shall ensure that not later than September 30, 2011, MOR and 
DFCCIL enter into a concession agreement (the “Concession Agreement”) and 
that DFCCIL and MOR, prior to the commissioning of the facilities financed by 
the Loan, update the Concession Agreement to incorporate relevant schedules 
into the Track Access Agreement (as a part of the Concession Agreement), both 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
C. 
The Borrower, through MOR, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Concession Agreement, the Track Access 
Agreement, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and the GAAP, and shall ensure that 
the Implementation Manual, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Concession 
Agreement, the Track Access Agreement (as a part of the Concession 
Agreement), and the GAAP are not materially revised, amended, waived, 
assigned or abrogated without the prior consent of the Bank.  If any provision of 
this Agreement is inconsistent with a provision of the Project Implementation 
Manual, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Concession Agreement, the Track 
Access Agreement (as a part of the Concession Agreement), or the GAAP, the 
provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
D. 
The Borrower shall ensure that DFCCIL implements the Project in accordance 
with the terms and conditions set out in the Project Agreement. 
 
E. 
The Borrower shall ensure that an Empowered Committee (EC) is established 
and maintained throughout the period of Project implementation, to address inter-
ministerial and state-level issues related to the Project.  
F.  
With respect to the road over bridges to be built in the State of Uttar Pradesh 
linked to the Project as detailed in the Project Implementation Manual (the 
“Linked Activities”), which may be updated from time to time, the Borrower, 
through MOR, shall take all necessary measures to ensure that: 
- 7 - 
 
(a) 
prior to the commencement of any civil works under the Linked 
Activities, that:  (i) a resettlement action plan, acceptable to the Bank, is 
prepared in accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in the 
RPF, and thereafter said resettlement action plan is implemented, in a 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) an environmental 
management plan, acceptable to the Bank, is prepared in accordance with 
the guidelines and procedures set forth in the EMF, and thereafter said 
environmental management plan is implemented in a form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
 the provisions of the resettlement action plan and the environmental 
management plan referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above are not amended, 
revised, or waived without the prior agreement of the Bank; and  
(c)      not later than December 31 of each year, starting December 31, 2011, an 
annual work program of the Linked Activities is submitted to the Bank for 
its review and comments and that said annual work program is 
implemented taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon, if any.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
 
The Borrower, through MOR, shall, and shall ensure that DFCCIL monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project, and cause the Project Reports to be prepared 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one (1) Financial Year quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.   
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DFCCIL to maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that DFCCIL have the Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Financial 
Year, commencing with the Financial Year in which the first withdrawal under 
the Project was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
 
- 8 - 
 
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause DFCCIL to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each Financial Year quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)   National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional provisions agreed 
upon from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank and referred to 
in the Procurement Plan) 
(b)   Shopping 
(c)   Direct Contracting 
 
- 9 - 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) 
Single-Source Selection 
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
- 10 - 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services and Training under 
Part 1 of the Project 
919,562,500 
 
66% 
 
(2) Goods, consultants services 
and Training under Part 2 of 
the Project 
50,000,000 
100% 
 
 
(3)  Refund of the Preparation 
Advance 
3,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(a) of the 
General Conditions 
(4)   Front-end Fee 
2,437,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
(5)  Premia for Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
-0- 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of 
the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
975,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or  
 
(b) 
payments under Categories (1) and (2) until the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and DFCCIL 
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and DFCCIL and is legally binding upon the Borrower 
and DFCCIL in accordance with its terms. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017. 
 
- 11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each November 15 and May 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2018  
 
through November 15, 2032 
 
 
3.33% 
On May 15, 2033 
3.43% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
- 12 - 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Concession Agreement” means the concession agreement referred to in  
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which sets forth, inter alia, 
concession objectives, the rights and obligations of the parties in achieving those 
objectives, and an enabling framework to incentivize the parties to provide and 
use the freight corridors efficiently and effectively, and reflects the Borrower’s 
objectives to strengthen DFCCIL management autonomy, independence, and 
market focus in construction and maintenance, as such agreement may be revised 
from time to time, with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
5. 
“DFC” means Dedicated Freight Corridor.  
6. 
“DFCCIL” means the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited, a 
Schedule A Central Public Sector Enterprise, fully owned by MOR, and 
incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Act, 1956, or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
7. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
8. 
“EMF” means the environmental management framework, dated April 11, 2011, 
adopted by DFCCIL and MOR, and satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth 
policies and procedures for the preliminary screening of environmental impacts 
of any activities that may be identified during later years of implementation of 
the Project and the Linked Activities, and for the preparation of environmental 
- 14 - 
 
assessment 
and 
environment 
management 
plans 
therefor 
during 
the 
implementation of the Project and of the Linked Activities, as said framework 
may be amended from time to time with the prior  agreement of the Bank, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said 
framework. 
9. 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan, dated April 11, 2011, 
adopted by  DFCCIL, and satisfactory to the Bank, describing the environmental 
management, mitigation, monitoring, reporting and institutional measures to be 
undertaken by  DFCCIL during the Project, as such plan may be revised from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
10. 
“Empowered Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph E, 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
11. 
“Financial Year” means the Borrower’s and Project Implementing Entities’ 
financial year beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year.  
 
12. 
“GAAP” means the governance and accountability action plan, dated April 11, 
2011, which sets out the Project specific key actions to strengthen governance, 
transparency, and accountability, as such plan may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
 
14. 
“MOR” means the Ministry of Railways of India, or any successor or successors 
thereto. 
 
15. 
“Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement dated July 24, 2009. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, 
Works, and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, dated April 19, 
2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual dated April 19, 2011, which 
sets out the procedures for Project implementation, including provisions related 
to financial management, procurement, contract management, social and 
- 15 - 
 
environmental safeguards, governance, and monitoring and evaluation, as such 
manual may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
 
19. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means DFCCIL.  
 
20. 
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan, dated April 11, 2011, adopted by 
DFCCIL and satisfactory to the Bank, which set forth resettlement, social, land 
acquisition, and tribal communities rehabilitation and assistance actions to be 
undertaken by DFCCIL under the Project, as such plan may be revised from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
21. 
“RPF” means the resettlement policy framework dated April 11, 2011, adopted 
by DFCCIL and MOR, and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the general 
terms and conditions for carrying out any social, resettlement and rehabilitation 
activities under the Project and the Linked Activities, including identification, 
assessment and mitigation of potential  and social impacts arising from the 
Project and the Linked Activities, carrying out consultations, processing and 
redressing grievances, monitoring related impacts, and, if required, resettlement 
and rehabilitation action plans and other development and entitlement plans for 
Displaced Persons, as such framework may be revised from time to time, with 
the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
22. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to DFCCIL, as such agreement may be revised 
from time to time, with the prior agreement of the Bank.   
 
23. 
“Track Access Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, included as a part of the Concession Agreement 
which shall contain the terms and conditions governing, inter alia, track access 
charges to be paid by MOR, performance targets and conditions of use, as such 
agreement may be revised from time to time, with the prior agreement of the 
Bank. 
 
24. 
“Training” means reasonable and necessary costs of training related to Project 
implementation, including the fees of educational or other institutions that 
provide training, costs related to attendance or organization of conferences, 
seminars, workshops, and study tours, and the trainees’ cost of travel, boarding, 
lodging and per diem allowances.  
 
 
