  
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8077-HR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Additional Financing for Trade and Transport Integration Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PORT OF PLOCE AUTHORITY 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 14, 2011  
  
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
LOAN NUMBER 8077-HR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated September 14, 2011, between PORT OF PLOCE 
AUTHORITY 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing (“Additional Financing”) for activities related to the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby 
agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Euro (€ 50,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.    
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
2 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
  
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the program, as 
3 
described in the Letter of Development Policy, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
  
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Executive Director.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
 
 
Port of Ploce Authority 
Trg Kralja Tomislava 21 
20340 Ploce 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
+385 (0) 20 67 02 71 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
4 
 
AGREED at Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
PORT OF PLOCE AUTHORITY 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Tomislav Batur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Hongjoo Hahm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
5 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to develop trade along Corridor Vc by improving 
the capacity, efficiency and quality of services on the Southern end of Corridor Vc with 
particular focus on Port of Ploce and on coordination aspects of all corridor participants. 
 
 
The Project consists of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Original Project. 
 
 
 
 
6 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.    
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU during execution of the Project, with 
adequate staffing and resources, and which shall be responsible for procurement, 
monitoring and reporting, disbursement and financial management, maintenance 
of Project accounts and preparation of Project reports and Financial Statements. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower, as such 
plan may be amended from time to time upon the agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption. 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards. 
 
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the Project is 
implemented in accordance with the EMP. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
  
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
7 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of 
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be: (a) 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period; and 
(b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Works.   All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
8 
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding (subject to additional provisions set forth 
in the Annex to this Schedule) 
 
(b)   
Direct Contracting 
 
  
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
  
(1) Works 
49,875,000 
100% 
 
(2) Front-end Fee 
    125,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
50,000,000 
 
9 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
1. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur 
any debt, unless the net revenues, net non-operating income and 
accumulated earnings of the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period 
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall 
be at least 1.1 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of 
the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, 
including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
 (iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and subsidies provided by the Guarantor, 
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's fees and dues 
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though they were not in effect during the twelve-month 
period to which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate 
maintenance, 
taxes 
and 
10 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
  
11 
 
ANNEX  
TO  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
 
For the purposes of following National Competitive Bidding procedures in the 
procurement of works to be financed under the Loan, the following modifications and 
additions shall apply: 
 
(i) 
Procedures 
 
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts.  Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Narodne Novine) and in at least 
one widely circulated national daily newspaper or on the website of the Ministry 
of Justice, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids. 
 
(ii) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications 
 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex contracts, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette (Narodne Novine) and in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and 
financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification 
documents, which shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through the 
use of a merit point system. Where pre-qualification is not used, the 
qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be 
assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and 
financial requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises 
 
 
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower’s territory 
shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the Bank’s 
satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial laws and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower’s government.  
Said enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
 
(iv) 
Bidding Documents 
 
 
The Borrower shall use appropriate bidding documents that are acceptable to the 
Bank. 
12 
 
 
(v) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation 
 
 
(1) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened 
simultaneously at the public bid opening. 
 
 
(2) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  The name of the bidder, the total amount of each bid 
and any discounts offered shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes 
of the public bid opening. 
 
 
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point 
system shall not be used. 
 
 
(4) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be granted without the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
 
(5) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(6) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 
(vi) 
Price Adjustment 
 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g., more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
 
(vii) 
Rejection of All Bids 
 
 
(1) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior written concurrence. 
 
 
(2) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding shall not 
be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(viii) 
Securities 
 
 
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; and performance securities not more than ten percent (10%).  No 
advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance 
13 
payment security.  The wording of all such securities shall be included into the 
bidding documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
  
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
Beginning November 15, 2023  
 
through November 15, 2033 
 
 
 
 
4.55 % 
 
On May 15, 2034 
 
 
4.45 % 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
14 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
   
15 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Corridor Vc” means the designated pan-European corridor Vc. 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated January 1, 2006, 
which sets forth agreed mitigation measures to be implemented and monitored 
under the Project during construction and operation phases, as updated on 
February 19, 2010. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
6. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated October 17, 2006 from the 
Guarantor describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
support the achievement of Project’s objectives and declaring the Guarantor’s 
commitment to the execution of said program.  
 
7. 
“Luka Ploce” means a joint-stock company registered in the commercial court of 
Dubrovnik on August 22, 2003 (No. Tf 03/66-4). 
 
8. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for a Trade and Transport 
Integration Project between Port of Ploce Authority and the International Bank of 
Reconstruction and Development, dated November 20, 2006 (Loan Number 
7410-HR). 
 
9. 
“Original Project” means the project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
10. 
 “PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Development Section of the PPA. 
 
11. 
“PPA” means Port of Ploce Authority, a non-profit legal entity established 
pursuant to the Maritime Domain and Seaport Act, dated September 25, 2003 
(Narodne Novine, 158/2003), as amended.  
 
16 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 5, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan describing implementation 
arrangements for the Project dated May 23, 2006, as updated on January 26, 2011 
and as may be adjusted from time to time with consent from the Bank.  
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds (fn 16), or if another financier with which the Bank 
has entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions 
has declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings 
made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a 
17 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
"16/ The sanction may, without limitation, also include restitution of any amount 
of the loan with respect to which sanctionable conduct has occurred. The Bank 
may publish the identity of any entity declared ineligible under paragraph 11." 
 
 
