CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8034-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Rural Electrification Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 5, 2011  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 5, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s Director of 
Indebtedness and Public Treasury or any person whom any of them shall 
designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through DGER in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action 
for the restructuring, dissolution or disestablishment of PU or for the suspension 
of its operations, so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
3
Bank, the Project and the ability of the Borrower through PU to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely that, the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
that the Project Operational Manual, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, has been officially adopted by the Borrower; and  
 
(b) 
that key staff of the PU listed in Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement have been selected in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on October 19, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the 
Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or herself, 
represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement 
which are considered of an administrative and non-financial nature.  The signing 
by such Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation 
by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is considered to be 
administrative and non-financial in nature.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile: 
(511)  626-9921  
 
 
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Ismael Benavides Ferreyros 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Susan G. Goldmark 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase access to electricity in rural areas of the 
Borrower on an efficient and sustainable basis. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Rural Electrification Sub-Projects
Increase electricity connections for rural communities, through extension of the 
existing electricity grid as part of the national interconnected grid or isolated grids, and/or 
the provision of electricity through solar photovoltaic systems (Rural Electrification Sub-
Projects) all selected according to the procedures defined in the Project Operational 
Manual and carried out by public and private electricity service providers (Rural 
Electrification Providers) through the provision of Rural Electrification Sub-Project 
Subsidy. 
 
Part B: Technical Assistance for Rural Electrification 
1. 
Provide technical assistance in support of rural electrification in order to: 
 
(a) 
promote productive uses of electricity; 
 
(b) 
assess and promote renewable energy; 
 
(c) 
build capacity of Project stakeholders and participants in the planning, 
design and implementation of Rural Electrification Sub-Projects using 
grid extensions and renewable energy; and 
 
(d) 
review and further develop the regulatory framework for rural electricity 
systems and off-grid renewable energy projects, including tariffs and 
monitoring and supervision of electricity service provision, as well as 
assess their socio-economic impact. 
 
Part C: Project Management
Support PU in its day-to-day technical, administrative, financial management and 
monitoring of the Project and evaluation of Rural Electrification Sub-Projects, through 
the provision of technical advisory services, audits and the financing of operating costs. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through DGER: 
 
(a) 
maintain until completion of the Project, the PU as the Project 
management unit within DGER responsible for overall Project planning, 
implementing, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including:  
 
(i) 
carrying out evaluation, selection and financing of Rural 
Electrification Sub-Projects, in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual; 
 
(ii) 
carrying out technical assistance activities under the Project; 
 
(iii) 
monitoring and providing training and guidance to Rural 
Electrification Providers on compliance with environmental and 
social safeguard requirements;  
 
(iv) 
maintaining the Project monitoring system; and 
 
(v) 
carrying out the financial management and disbursement 
activities in coordination with the administrative units of DGER, 
and carrying out and/or supervising the procurement processes of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
maintain, until the completion of the Project, the PU with adequate 
resources and competent staff in adequate numbers with qualification and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, including the following key staff 
members: the Project manager, the heads of the technical, administrative 
and monitoring units, the chief rural electrification specialist, the 
monitoring and evaluation specialist, the productive uses of electricity 
specialist, the renewable energy specialist, the hydropower specialist, the 
environmental specialist, the indigenous peoples specialist, the 
Resettlement specialist, the procurement specialist and the financial 
management specialist; 
 
(c) 
and the PU, carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out in 
accordance with the Project Operational Manual, including the 
Environmental Management Framework, the Indigenous Peoples’ 
7
Planning Framework, the Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework 
and the Annual Operation Plans; 
 
(d) 
and the PU, maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators set forth in the Project Operational Manual, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
and 
 
(e)  
maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, the Project 
Directory Committee with the functions set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual which shall include the approval of revisions to the 
Project Operational Manual and participation in the monitoring of the 
Project; said Project Directory Committee shall convene on a regular 
basis. 
 
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive 
any provision of the Project Operational Manual, including the Environmental 
Management Framework, the Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework, the 
Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework or the Annual Operation Plans, 
without the Bank’s prior written approval.  In case of any conflict between the 
terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
B. 
Annual Operation Plan and Procurement Plan Annual Updates 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through DGER and PU, shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about November 30 of each year during 
Project implementation, starting on November 30, 2011, the updated 
Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing all procurement 
activities under the Project for the following year; 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by December 31 of each year, starting on 
December 31, 2011, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the plan 
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the plan based on 
its recommendations and the Bank’s views on the matter; 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about November 30 of each year, starting on 
December 31, 2011, the new Annual Operation Plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, detailing all activities to be financed under the Project for the 
following year; and 
 
8
(d) 
review with the Bank, by December 31 of each year, starting on 
December 31, 2011, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the plan 
referred to in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the plan based on 
its recommendations and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
2. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Procurement Plan and/or any of 
the Annual Operation Plan and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through DGER and PU, shall carry out the Project, or cause the 
Project to be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
and Social Management Instruments; and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be 
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision 
thereof. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Prior to the approval of any proposed Rural Electrification Sub-Project, 
the Borrower (through DGER), shall ensure that the PU and the Rural 
Electrification 
Provider 
apply 
the 
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management Frameworks, in order to: 
 
(i)   
carry out an environmental and social screening and assessment 
of such proposed Rural Electrification Sub-Project; and 
 
(ii)   
prepare, if applicable, the pertinent EMP, IPP and/or RAP for the 
prevention, mitigation and remediation of any potential 
environmental or social consequences arising from the 
implementation of such proposed Rural Electrification Sub-
Project. 
 
(b) 
During the implementation of any Rural Electrification Sub-Project, the 
Borrower (through DGER and PU), shall ensure that the Rural 
Electrification Provider carries out the EMP, IPP and/or RAP referred to 
in subparagraph (a) (ii) above, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
When, in the Bank’s opinion, any activity under Part B of the Project may have 
implications on specific sites or when the recommendations resulting from said 
9
activities could affect environmentally or socially sensitive areas, the Borrower, 
through PU shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies related 
to studies, technical assistance or capacity building under Part B of the Project 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, 
such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank’s 
Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such 
technical assistance and capacity building activities. 
 
E. 
Rural Electrification Sub-Projects 
 
1. 
The Rural Electrification Sub-Project Subsidy shall be requested by a Rural 
Electrification Provider in accordance with the Project Operational Manual to be 
used solely for the purposes of the activities under Part A of the Project. Each 
Rural Electrification Sub-Project proposal shall be approved by the Borrower 
through DGER on the basis of a detailed evaluation by the PU, pursuant to 
eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as further specified in 
the Project Operational Manual which shall include the following:  
 
(i) 
the relevant Rural Electrification Sub-project proposal shall be in 
compliance with the Rural Electrification Legal Framework; and 
 
(ii) 
the proposed Rural Electrification Sub-project complies with the 
requirements of the Environmental and Social Management Frameworks 
and is not related to construction of any hydro-generation investment. 
 
2. 
The activities to be financed by a Rural Electrification Sub-Project shall be 
carried out pursuant to a Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement, to be 
concluded between the Borrower (through DGER) and the Rural Electrification 
Provider under terms and conditions described in more detail in the Project 
Operational Manual and which shall include the following: 
 
(i) 
a copy of the approved activity with its budget, its execution timetable, 
its disbursement timetable and its performance indicators; 
 
(ii) 
provisions requiring DGER to make available, on a grant basis, a portion 
of the proceeds of the Loan to the relevant Rural Electrification Provider 
in the form of the Rural Electrification Sub-Project Subsidy; 
 
(iii) 
the obligation of the Rural Electrification Provider to:  (A) carry out the 
activities and operate and maintain the relevant Rural Electrification 
Sub-Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound 
administrative, 
financial, 
engineering, 
cultural, 
social, 
environmental standards and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental and Social Management Frameworks, the Project 
Operational Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
10 
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; (B) maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with simple and sound 
accounting practices defined in the Project Operational Manual, the 
operations, the resources and expenditures in respect of the Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project; (C) maintain adequate reporting in 
accordance with the standards specified in the Project Operational 
Manual; and (D) make a minimum contribution in cash as defined in the 
Project Operation Manual; 
 
(iv) 
the requirement that:  (A) the goods, works and consultants’ services to 
be financed from the proceeds of the Rural Electrification Sub-Projects 
shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) such goods, works and 
consultants’ services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
activities financed by the Rural Electrification Sub-Project; 
 
(v) 
the right of the PU to inspect, by itself or jointly with DGER and the 
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods, works, sites and 
constructions included in the activities financed by the Rural 
Electrification Sub-Projects, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents; 
 
(vi) 
the right of MEM to obtain all information as DGER or the Bank shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial 
conditions of the activities financed by the Rural Electrification Sub-
Projects; and 
 
(vii) 
(A) the right of the DGER to suspend and/or terminate the right 
of the Rural Electrification Provider to use the proceeds of the Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project; and (B) the obligation of the Rural 
Electrification Provider to refund any used portion of the Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project to MEM, all upon failure by the Rural 
Electrification Provider to perform any of its obligations under the Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through DGER, shall exercise its rights under each Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement or any of its 
provisions. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through PU, shall, prior to the submission of a Loan withdrawal 
application for the respective activity to be financed through a Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project for each qualified Rural Electrification Provider, 
11 
furnish to the Bank a report confirming that the respective Rural Electrification 
Sub-Project Agreement has been approved by the Borrower and executed 
between the MEM and the relevant Rural Electrification Provider, indicating the 
name of the qualified Rural Electrification Provider and the value of said Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project Subsidy. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through DGER, shall monitor the activities financed through 
Rural Electrification Sub-Projects under Part A of the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of this paragraph and the Project Operational Manual that include, 
inter alia:
(i) 
the administrative rules and procedures for planning, preparing, 
proposing, selecting, contracting, financing, implementing, supervising, 
monitoring and evaluating the Rural Electrification Sub-Projects; 
 
(ii) 
the eligibility and qualifying rules for Rural Electrification Providers;  
 
(iii) 
a model form of a Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement; and 
 
(iv) 
the Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework, the Environmental 
Management Framework and the Involuntary Resettlement Policy 
Framework. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through DGER and PU and within the framework of SNIP, shall 
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
forty-five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through DGER and PU shall:  
 
(a) 
by January 31, 2014, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, 
carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the implementation 
of operations under the Project (Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review 
shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project; 
and 
 
12 
(b) 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Bank.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through DGER and PU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through DGER and PU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the semester in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through DGER and PU, shall have its Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions 
(a) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set 
forth in this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following 
provisions shall govern all procurement of goods and works with 
13 
National Competitive Bidding procedures under Section III. B.2 (a) of 
this Schedule: 
 
(i) 
Bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
 
(ii) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the 
bidding documents or used for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
(iii) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be 
quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
 
(iv) 
Bidders shall be allowed to participate in National Competitive 
Bidding without restriction and shall not be subject to any 
unjustified requirement which will affect their ability to bid such 
as, but not limited to, the requirement to authenticate their 
bidding documents or any documentation related to such bidding 
documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a prerequisite of 
bidding. 
 
(v) 
The Borrower through MEM shall utilize standard bidding 
documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any provision set forth 
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions 
shall govern all employment of consultants referred to in Section III.C of 
this Schedule: 
 
(i) 
Consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
 
(ii) 
Consultants shall not be required to authenticate any 
documentation related to their participation in the selection 
process with either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a condition of 
participation in said selection process. 
 
(iii) 
The Borrower shall use standard requests for proposals and 
standard evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
14 
(iv) 
Consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to 
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association that are 
different from those required for Peruvian consultants. 
 
(v) 
No consultant hired for the Project, at the time he or she is 
carrying out his or her contractual obligations as a consultant, 
may hold civil service office or any other position in any agency 
of the Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-
entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his 
or her consulting services. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications   
(a) Single Source Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget   
15 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants   
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Annual Procurement Review 
 
The Borrower, through MEM and PU, shall: 
 
(a) 
have all the procurement records and documentation for each fiscal year 
of the Project reviewed, in accordance with appropriate procurement 
review principles, by procurement reviewers acceptable to the Bank 
recruited in accordance with Section III of Schedule 2 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement review 
report of such review by said reviewers, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement 
records and documentation and the procurement review thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
16 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and 
 
consultants’ services for 
 
Rural Electrification 
 
Sub-Projects under Part 
 
A of the Project 
 
48,375,000 
100% of the amounts 
disbursed for the pertinent 
Rural Electrification Sub-
Project Subsidy 
(2) Goods, consultants’ 
 
services and Training 
 
under Part B and C of 
 
the Project 
 
1,625,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
50,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after October 1, 2010 (but in no case more than one year from the date of 
this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2016. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank through the PU, 
no later than six months after the Effective Date, the contract appointing for a 
period of up to three years the independent auditors for the audits referred to in 
Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, under terms of reference and 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
17 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on April 15, 
2029. 
 
18 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Operation Plan” means any of the plans to be prepared by the PU and 
detailing activities to be financed under the Project, as updated each year in 
accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
 
3. 
“Bank Safeguard Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and procedures 
set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under 
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
6. 
“DGER” means Dirección General de Electrificación Rural, the Borrower’s 
General Directorate of Rural Electrification within MEM created by the 
Borrower’s Supreme Decree No.026-2007-EM, dated May 4, 2007. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means MEM’s framework 
dated March, 2011, acceptable to the Bank, (published and available to the public 
on the website http://dger.minem.gob.pe under the title “marco_evaluacion.pdf”) 
outlining environmental and social implementation procedures, mitigation 
measures and monitoring procedures for the Project as well as measures for 
chance finding of cultural heritage property, as said framework may be amended 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
8. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means a subproject-specific 
environmental management plan, acceptable to the Bank, adopted pursuant to the 
terms of the EMF, giving details of measures appropriate or required to 
maximize the benefits of the Project, eliminate, offset or mitigate any adverse 
environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, together with 
budget and cost estimates, sources of funding, adequate institutional, monitoring 
and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and 
regular feedback on compliance with, such environmental management plan.  
19 
9. 
“Environmental and Social Management Frameworks” means collectively the 
EMF, the IRPF, and the IPPF. 
 
10. 
“Environmental and Social Management Instruments” means collectively the 
Environmental and Social Management Frameworks and any RAP, EMP or IPP 
adopted pursuant to such frameworks. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
12. 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Plan” or “IPP” means a subproject-specific plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, adopted  pursuant to the Indigenous People’s Planning 
Framework defining specific measures for indigenous peoples in order to protect 
them and to ensure that said people be granted equal legal, financial and 
organizational opportunities under the Project, and to be implemented under a 
specific activity, in accordance with the provisions of the Indigenous Peoples’ 
Planning Framework, as the same may be modified from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or 
annexes to said plan. 
 
13. 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means MEM’s framework 
dated March 2011, acceptable to the Bank (published and available to the public 
on the website http://dger.minem.gob.pe under the title “marco_desarrollo.pdf”) 
outlining implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring 
procedures for indigenous peoples under the Project, as said framework may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
14. 
“Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework” or “IRPF” means the MEM’s 
framework dated March, 2011, acceptable to the Bank, (published and available 
to the public on the website http://dger.minem.gob.pe under the title 
“marco_reasentamiento.pdf”), outlining implementation procedures, mitigation 
measures and monitoring procedures in relation to any Resettlement under the 
Project, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s 
prior approval. 
 
15. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance. 
 
16. 
“MEM” means Ministerio de Energía y Minas, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Energy and Mines. 
 
17. 
“OSINERGMIN” means Organismo Supervisor de la Inversión en Energía y 
Minería, the Borrower’s supervisory body for energy and mining investments, as 
established and operating under Law No. 28964 of January 24, 2007. 
20 
18. 
“Performance Indicators” means the Project performance indicators set forth in 
the Project Operational Manual. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 7, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
 
21. 
“Project Directory Committee” means the advisory body of the Project 
comprising representatives from MEF, MEM and OSINERGMIN, to be 
established by the Borrower and operate under a Supreme Decree. 
 
22. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Bank to be 
approved by the Borrower’s Vice-Ministry of Energy through a vice-ministerial 
resolution, outlining the policies, financial management, procurement and 
disbursement procedures, the information referred to in Section I.E.5 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, the implementation and monitoring procedures for the 
Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
approval, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Operational 
Manual, including the Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework, the 
Environmental Management Framework and the Involuntary Resettlement Policy 
Framework. 
 
23. 
“PU” means the Project Unit, the Borrower’s unit within the DGER of the MEM 
in charge of the day-to-day management and implementation of the Project, as 
established and operating under the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 026-2007-
EM, dated May 4, 2007. 
 
24. 
“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the 
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently. 
 
25. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means a subproject-specific plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, adopted pursuant to the IRPF setting out the 
arrangements, including related compensation measures, and to be applied in the 
event of Resettlement, in accordance with the provisions of the Involuntary 
21 
Resettlement Policy Framework (as defined above), as the same may be modified 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term 
includes any schedules or annexes to said plan. 
26. 
“Rural Electrification Legal Framework” means, collectively, the General Rural 
Electrification Law (Ley General de Electrificación Rural), No. 28749, dated 
June 1, 2006 and the Legislative Decree No. 1041 dated June 27, 2008, and other 
regulations or decrees that apply, as said framework may be amended from time 
to time. 
27. 
“Rural Electrification Provider” means a private or public electricity distribution 
company qualified in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual and in Schedule 2 to this Agreement in order to 
provide electricity services in rural areas under a Rural Electrification Sub-
Project. 
28. 
“Rural Electrification Sub-Project” means a sub-project carried out or proposed 
to be carried out under Part A of the Project by a Rural Electrification Provider 
pursuant to a Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement and in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual and 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
29. 
“Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement” means any of the agreements 
executed between DGER and a Rural Electrification Provider containing the 
terms and conditions for the financing of electricity provision under Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual and in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
30. 
“Rural Electrification Sub-Project Subsidy” means a subsidy or a contribution 
granted or proposed to be granted out of the proceeds of the Loan to cover part of 
the investment cost of a Rural Electrification Sub-Project. 
31. 
“SNIP” means Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública, the Borrower’s national 
system of public investment created and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 
27293, dated June 28, 2000 and establishing principles, processes, methodologies 
and technical guidelines for every phase of public investment in the Borrower’s 
territory. 
32. 
“Training” means the reasonable costs of:  (i) training materials and rental of 
training facilities and equipment; (ii) tuition fees, travel and per-diem of trainers 
and trainees; and (iii) any other expenses related to training (including study 
tours 
and 
workshops) 
to 
be 
carried 
out 
under 
the 
Project.
22 
