CONFORMED COPY 
  
LOAN NUMBER 8005-CN 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(Second Liuzhou Environment Management Project) 
 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
  
 
 
 
Dated May 25, 2011 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 25, 2011 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
At the Borrower’s request, the Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one 
hundred and fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
 
- 2 -  
 
 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity (Guangxi) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
- 3 -  
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
party to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Sludge Management Cooperation 
Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations 
thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE V – TERMINATION 
 
5.01.    The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf of Liuzhou and 
LMWTC in accordance with Section E of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, 
including the provision that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement will become 
effective only after the Legal Agreements have become effective. 
 
5.02.   The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Luizhou and 
LMWTC and is legally binding upon Luizhou and LMWTC in accordance with 
its terms.  
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
- 4 -  
 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
By/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By/s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 -  
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to establish sustainable wastewater collection and 
treatment services within the urban area boundaries of Liuzhou, and in the Sanjiang, 
Rong’an, Rongshui, and Liucheng Counties.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1. Wastewater Management 
 
1. 
Construction and/ or equipping of wastewater treatment plants and sewerage 
systems in the Sanjiang, Rong’an, Rongshui, and Liucheng Counties, and in the 
Shatang and Guantang Districts of Liuzhou. 
 
2. 
Upgrading and construction of an urban fringe sewerage system for Liuzhou. 
 
Part 2. Sludge Management  
 
Development of a sludge co-combustion system by adapting the existing rotary 
kilns of the Liuzhou Yugeng Cement Plant and construction of storage and 
processing facilities required for the operation of such a system.  
 
Part 3. Institutional Development and Capacity Building 
 
Provision of technical assistance for: 
  
(a) 
Project management including contract management, financial review 
and post evaluation;  
 
(b) 
the strengthening of the operation of existing wastewater facilities 
including operation optimization, and establishment of a management 
information system for asset management; and 
 
(c) 
workshops, study tours and training for human resource development of 
LMWTC.  
 
 
- 6 -  
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity (Guangxi), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and for any caps 
and collars and interest during construction) shall be recovered over a 
period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of five and a half 
(5.5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity (Guangxi) to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than March 15 and 
September 15 each year, starting on September 15, 2011.                                                
 
 
- 7 -  
 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report by not later than 
March 15 and September 15 in each year, interim un-audited financial reports for 
the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
 
- 8 -  
 
 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   In addition, the procedures to be 
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in 
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic 
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall 
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
 
- 9 -  
 
 
(iv) All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity (Guangxi), as the case may be, in case of breach of 
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall 
specify the required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity (Guangxi), as the case may be. 
 
(ix) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined:  
(A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and 
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall 
not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake 
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents 
or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a 
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
- 10 -  
 
 
 
(xii) All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall 
not take place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered price 
of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope 
of the awarded contract.   
 
(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity (Guangxi) shall have in place 
provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
(b) 
Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)  
Single-source Selection 
(c)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 11 -  
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
 
- 12 -  
 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Works  
123,344,500     
91% 
(2) 
Goods  
10,970,000 
100% 
(3)  Goods, consultants’ 
services, non-
consultant services 
and Training for  
Part 3 of the Project  
1,780,000 
 
100% 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this Agreement and 
in accordance with Section 2.07(b) 
of the General Conditions 
(5) 
Premium for Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement 
and in accordance with  
Section 4.05(c) of the  
General Conditions 
(6)     Interest During 
Construction 
13,530,500 
Amount payable pursuant to  
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
in accordance with Section 2.07(c) 
of the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000 
 
 
- 13 -  
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 may be 
made for payments made within twelve (12) months prior to this date but 
on or after April 1, 2010 for Eligible Expenditures; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made under Category (1) until the Bank shall have received 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the consulting firm to be employed 
for design review, procurement assistance, construction management and 
other Project management assistance has been employed in accordance 
with Section III of this Schedule 2 under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2017. 
 
 
- 14 -  
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each October 15 and April 15 
Beginning October 15, 2016  
through April 15, 2040 
 
 
2.04% 
On October 15, 2040 
2.08% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
 
- 15 -  
 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 16 -  
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
The acronym “CPMO” means any of the Project Management Offices referred to 
in Section I.A(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
6. 
The acronym “EMPs” means, collectively, the Project Implementing Entity’s 
Consolidated Environmental Impact Assessments Report dated August 13, 2010 
and the Environmental Management Plan dated December 19, 2010 which set 
out, with respect to the Project, measures for the protection of the environment; 
conservation of, and mitigation against adverse impacts on, natural habitats or 
their functions; and avoidance of, or mitigation against, adverse impacts on 
physical cultural resources, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be 
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
The acronym “EMP” means, individually, any such plan and assessment. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower covering the period  
January 1 through December 31, which is also the fiscal year of LMWTC and the 
Project Counties/Districts.  
 
 
- 17 -  
 
 
8.  
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
9. 
“Liuzhou” means Liuzhou Municipality within Guangxi, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
10.  
“LMWTC” means Liuzhou Municipal Wastewater Treatment Company Limited, 
a municipal owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant 
to its Charter of December 2004 and to Business License No. 4502001010700 
dated December 16, 2004, issued by Liuzhou Municipality Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Operating Agreement” means each of the Operating Agreements to be entered 
into between LMWTC and the concerned Project County/ District pursuant to 
Section I.F of the Schedule to the Project Agreement as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
supplements to said agreements, and an “Operating Agreement”: means, 
individually, any of such Operating Agreements. 
 
12. 
The acronym “PMO” means the Project Management Office referred to in 
Section I.A(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 22, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project County” means, individually, the Sanjiang, Rong’an, Rongshui, and 
Liucheng Counties, and any successor thereto; and “Project Counties” means, 
collectively, all such counties. 
 
16. 
“Project County/District” means, individually, the Borrower’s Sanjiang, 
Rong’an, Rongshui, and Liucheng Counties, and the Shatang and Guantang 
Districts, and any successor thereto; and “Project Counties/Districts” means, 
collectively, all such counties and districts. 
 
17. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “Guangxi” means the Borrower’s Guangxi 
Zhuang Autonomous Region and any successor thereto.  
 
 
- 18 -  
 
 
18. 
The acronym “RAP” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Consolidated 
Resettlement Action Plan dated May 25, 2010 which set out the principles and 
procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and the 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of 
the execution of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
19. 
“Respective Part of the Project” means in respect of each Project County/District 
activities under the Project to be carried out within its jurisdiction. 
 
20. 
“Sludge Management Cooperation Agreement” means the Sludge Management 
Cooperation Agreement to be entered into between LMWTC and the Liuzhou 
Yugeng Cement Plant pursuant to Section I.G of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and supplements to said agreement.  
 
21. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be 
entered into between Liuzhou and LMWTC pursuant to Section I.E of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said agreement. 
 
22. 
“Training” means for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per diem for trainees 
attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars and the cost of 
delivering training (excluding consultants fees), such as rental of training space 
and training equipment and other logistical costs.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
 
- 19 -  
 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders. 
