CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7982-EG 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Egypt National Railways Restructuring 
Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 23, 2011  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7982-EG 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 23, 2011, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF 
EGYPT 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of 
providing additional financing for the Project (as defined under this Agreement).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement or in the Appendix to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred thirty million 
United States Dollars ($330,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“the Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“the Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Egyptian National Railways (Project Implementing Entity). 
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter 
of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and pay itself the amount of said fee.  
 
2
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, for each Interest Period shall be at 
a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 81 of the Appendix of 
the General Conditions that apply to this Loan) for the Loan Currency plus the 
Variable Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the 
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
 
2.05. The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. (a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent 
debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable Rate based 
on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; 
and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a 
“Conversion”, as defined in the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested 
that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable 
in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up 
to the amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the 
3
table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08.  The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for 
the purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect of the Loan. 
 
4
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To 
this end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01.  This Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received 
evidence that all the necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the 
Borrower according to Section 9.01 of the General Conditions. 
 
4.02. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
 
4.03. The Additional Legal Matter to be included in the Legal Opinion is that 
the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and 
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
4.04. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days 
after the date of this Agreement, or such later date established by the Bank in 
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. The Minister of Planning and International Cooperation of the Borrower 
and the Assistant to the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing 
Organizations of the Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are 
severally designated as representatives of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
5
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8 Adly Street, 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
 
(202) 2391-5167 
 
5.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
6
By /s/ Inger Andersen 
 
Authorized Representative 
7
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the 
reliability, efficiency and safety of the railways’ services through signaling and 
track renewal investments by the Project Implementing Entity and the 
modernization of its management and operating practices in order to enhance the 
railways’ sector responsiveness to economic and social needs and to strengthen 
the financial viability of the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement) as scaled up through the following additional parts: 
 
Part A: Signaling Modernization
1. 
 Modernizing the signaling system along the Beni Suef – Asyut line 
consisting of: (i) an automatic block signaling system (on an open line); 
(ii) electronic interlocking systems (in stations); and (iii) a level-crossing 
protection system, through the carrying out of works, and provision of 
consultants’ services for supervisory engineering and goods. 
 
2.  
 Installation of a computerized central traffic control system for said line, 
through the provision of consultants’ services for supervisory engineering 
and goods. 
 
Part B: Modernization of Management and Operating Practices
Supporting the development and delivery of: (a) modernization of railways 
maintenance practices; (b) improvement of the Project Implementing Entity’s 
operational rules and procedures; (c) improvement and strengthening of project 
management capacities among the relevant staff of the Project Implementing 
Entity; and (d) improvement of financial planning and financial management 
capacity within the Project Implementing Entity, all through the provision of 
consultants’ services. 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A.  
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall: (a) cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all 
the obligations of the Project Implementing Entity therein set forth; (b) take or 
cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project Implementing 
Entity to perform such obligations; and (c) except as mutually agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action  which would prevent or interfere with such performance.  
 
2.  
The Borrower shall: (a) through the Ministry of Transport, maintain the 
Steering Committee established under the Original Project with membership and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Steering Committee shall, inter 
alia, have responsibility for Project oversight and coordination; and (b) by not 
later than March 31, 2011, cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish and 
thereafter maintain the EAD with functions, responsibilities and staff in adequate 
numbers and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
 
B. 
 Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
 
1.  
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a 
subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing 
Entity, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia, the following: (i) repayment of principal, and payment of interest, 
charges and premium in accordance with Article II of this Agreement and Article 
III of the General Conditions; (ii) payment of any other charges which may be 
required by the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the 
Project Implementing Entity (“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”). 
 
9
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as mutually agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications related thereto as agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Bank  on October 31, 2010.  
 
C. 
 Safeguards 
 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that 
remedial measures are taken during the implementation and operation of 
the Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in the ESIA and 
the EMP. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Implementing Entity, maintain or 
cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Implementing Entity, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
10 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have the 
Financial Statements reflecting the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project audited by the Borrower’s Central Auditing Organization in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year 
of the Project Implementing Entity (or such other period proposed by the Project 
Implementing Entity and agreed to by the Bank).  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
International Competitive Bidding. Goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
11 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan through the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General 
Conditions, this Section, and such additional arrangements  as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such arrangements), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed 
in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed  
(1) Goods and works 
under Part A of the 
Project 
 
329,175,000 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
 
825,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(3) Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest 
Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement 
Total 
 
330,000,000  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal 
shall be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2017. 
 
12 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2018  
 
through August 15, 2038 
 
2.33% 
On February 15, 2039 
2.14% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower 
shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment 
Date shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after 
the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by 
multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the 
13 
 
numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal 
Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) and the denominator 
of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares 
for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such 
amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior 
to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of 
calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal 
and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, if at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system 
under which invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal 
Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, 
upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that 
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
14 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, 
and revised in October 2006, and May 2010. 
 
3. “EAD” means the Environment Affairs Directorate referred to in Section 
I. A.2(b) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
4. “Environmental Management Plans” or “EMPs” means, collectively: (a) the 
Project Implementing Entity’s environmental management plan for the 
Original Project furnished to the Bank on October 7, 2008; and (b) the Project 
Implementing Entity’s environmental management plan for the additional Part 
A.2 of the Project furnished to the Bank on June 26, 2010, as such plans may 
be updated from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be 
taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or 
reduce potential adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
5. “Environmental and Social Impact Assessments” or “ESIAs” means, 
collectively: (a) the Project Implementing Entity’s environmental and social 
impact assessment report furnished to the Bank on October 7, 2008, assessing 
the environment and social impacts of the Original Project; and (b) the Project 
Implementing Entity’s environmental and social impact assessment report 
furnished to the Bank on June 26, 2010, assessing the environment and social 
impacts of the additional Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
6. “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
15 
 
7. “Original Loan Agreement” means Loan Agreement (Egypt National Railways 
Restructuring Project, Loan No 7656-EG) between Arab Republic of Egypt and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated August 2, 2009. 
 
8. “Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement (Egypt National Railways Restructuring Project, Loan No 7656-
EG) between Arab Republic of Egypt and International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, dated August 2, 2009.  
 
9. “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
10. “Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated October 20, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph. 
 
11. “Project Implementing Entity” means the Egyptian National Railways 
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 266 of 1956, and Law No. 152 
of 1980.
12. “Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means Law No. 266 of 1956, and 
Law No. 152 of 1980. 
 
13. “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
