 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8056-RO 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Social Assistance System Modernization Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
ROMANIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 8, 2011  
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated July 8, 2011, between ROMANIA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million Euro (EUR 
500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoLFSP in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower’s Social Assistance Reform Strategy and Action Plan have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, without the 
Bank’s prior consent, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Borrower to carry out the Project or to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
- 3 - 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s Legislation regulating Social Assistance Programs has 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to effectively 
implement the Social Assistance Reform Strategy to carry out the 
Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Borrower, through MoLFSP, has approved the POM satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Ministry of Public Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Public Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
11239  
 
4021 312 6792 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 4 - 
 
 
 
AGREED at Bucharest, Romania as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
ROMANIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Francois Rantrua 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Gheorghe Ialomitianu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the overall performance of the 
Borrower’s social assistance system by strengthening performance management, 
improving equity, improving administrative efficiency and reducing error and fraud.  
 
 
 
The Project consists of the following: 
 
Provision of financing, through reimbursement of Payments for the Eligible 
Expenditure Program (EEP) already incurred out of the Borrower’s budgetary allocations 
in support of implementation of the Borrower’s reform program aimed at improving 
social assistance system. 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoLFPS, shall: (a) take all necessary measures to 
effectively implement the Social Reform Assistance Strategy and Action Plan; and (b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the POM and shall not amend, 
waive or abrogate any provisions of the POM without the Bank’s prior approval.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the General Directorate for Social Assistance (GDSA) 
within the MoLFSP, shall ensure coordination of Project’s implementation and shall be 
responsible for: (a) monitoring the achievement of the DLIs; (b) compiling and delivering 
the documentary evidence of achievement of respective DLIs to the Bank; and (c) 
coordinating with the MoPF in preparation and submitting to the Bank of withdrawal 
applications under the Project. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MoPF, MoLFSP and NASB, shall ensure the Project’s 
financial management implementation. The MoPF, MoLFSP and NASB will continue to 
execute the budget payments related to the EEP through the existing channels and 
procedures, while the county branches of NASB, i.e. the CASB, shall regularly report on 
the receipt of payments and utilization of budget funds. In this respect, the MoLFSP and 
NASB shall ensure that the EEP reporting is regular, timely and is in compliance with 
statutory reporting requirements. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through MoLFSP, shall take all necessary measures to strengthen 
the institutional capacity for strategic planning, performance monitoring and performance 
management of the GDSA, the Social Inspection and NASB and the National Institute for 
Medical Expertise and Work Capacity Recovery, in accordance with the Stand-by 
Arrangement between Romania and IMF and the MoU and the Loan Agreement between 
Romania and the EC, respectively. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that appropriate budget allocations are made available 
yearly for the Project implementation purposes, throughout the Project duration. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
- 7 - 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoLFSP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to 
the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of six (6)  months, and shall 
include: (a) expenditure data for the Social Assistance Program included in the 
EEP in compliance with the Borrower’s national economic budget classification; 
(b) Project’s implementation reports in a format and content as described in the 
POM . Such reports shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
Without limitation upon provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the Borrower 
shall, through MoLFSP, NASB and CASBs, retain all detailed expenditure 
information with respect to payments to beneficiaries under the Social Assistance 
Programs included in the EEP within their jurisdiction, which may be requested 
by the Bank for post review. 
 
3. 
During Project implementation, the Borrower, through the Court of Accounts, 
shall carry out annual audits of the Social Assistance Programs included in the 
EEP, and shall provide such audit reports to the Bank not later than twelve (12) 
months after the end of the audited calendar year, starting with the audit of 2011. 
 
4. 
During Project implementation, the Borrower, through MoLFSP, shall cause the 
Social Inspection to carry out sample based thematic inspections of the 
implementation of the Social Assistance Programs included in the EEP (except 
the State Child Allowance Program), in such scope and regularity as defined in 
the POM and covering, without limitation, the level of irregularities and errors 
occurring in administering social benefits, their causes and remedial actions 
taken. Starting with the calendar year of 2012, during Project implementation, the 
reports of  the thematic inspections shall be provided for the Bank’s review not 
later than ninety (90) days from the end of thematic inspection. The Borrower, 
through MoLFSP, shall provide the Bank an opportunity to discuss and comment 
on said reports and shall promptly carry out the agreed recommendations 
provided by the Bank upon such reviews. 
 
- 8 - 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MLSPF and NASB, shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through MLSPF and NASB, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the 
Project Report not later than forty five (45) after the end of each calendar quarter, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MLSPF and NASB, shall have Program Financial 
Statements relating to the EEP audited by the Court of Accounts in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of 
the Program Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower, shall be carried out in accordance with the terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank. The audited Program Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the 
end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to reimburse Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
paid by the Borrower and reimbursed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
(“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures to be financed, through reimbursement for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
- 9 - 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Payments 
under 
the 
EEP 
 
500,000,000 
Amount up to withdrawal 
ceiling set forth in the table 
in paragraph B.2(a) of this 
Section 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500,000,000 
 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee;  
 
 
(b) 
for payments under Category (1) with respect to each tranche, as set forth 
in the table in paragraph B.2 (a) of this Section, for which withdrawal 
request has been submitted, unless the Borrower, through MOPF, has 
submitted evidence satisfactory to the Bank that Payments under the EEP 
have been made to eligible beneficiaries by the Borrower in accordance 
and in compliance with the procedures set forth in the Borrower’s 
applicable laws and regulations; and 
 
 
(c)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed Euro one hundred 
million (EUR 100,000,000 equivalent) may be made for reimbursements 
of payments made by the Borrower prior to this date but on or after July 
10, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) provided that the 
Borrower shall have submitted evidence satisfactory to the Bank that 
respective DLIs have been met. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section and without limitation to 
the provision set forth in paragraph 1 above, withdrawals under Category above 
may be made by the Borrower as follows:  
 
 
(a) 
Withdrawals shall be made in one (1) to twenty (20) tranches and in 
amounts not exceeding the total of the ceilings per each respective DLI 
- 10 - 
 
provided in the table below, subject to submission to the Bank of 
evidences satisfactory to the Bank and as defined in the POM that the 
following DLIs have been achieved: 
 
Disbursement-linked indicator (DLI) 
Withdrawal ceiling 
(expressed in EUR) 
1) Adopted Action Plan for the Social 
Assistance Strategy is disseminated by the 
MoLFSP 
25,000,000 
2) Three monthly monitoring reports of the 4 
programs under EEP (Family Allowance, 
Child Raising Benefits, GMI and State Child 
Allowance) are produced by NASB 
25,000,000 
3) Three monthly performance management 
reports for Low-income Households 
Programs are produced by NASB and used 
at the management level in the MoLFSP and 
NASB 
25,000,000 
4) At least 90% of the Family Allowance 
beneficiaries are paid, through NASB, for 
two consecutive months according to 
harmonized means-testing procedures and 
lower eligibility threshold 
25,000,000 
5) At least 90% of Child Raising Benefits 
beneficiaries entering the program since 
January 1st, 2011 are paid, trough NASB, for 
two consecutive months, using a lower 
replacement income of 75% 
25,000,000 
6) At least 90% of beneficiaries of the new 
consolidated program for Low-income 
Households  Programs are paid through 
NASB for two consecutive months 
25,000,000 
7) Share of social assistance funds going to the 
first poorest quintile increased to 45% from 
37.7% at baseline (in 2009), as measured by 
the Household Budget Survey 
25,000,000 
8) Enacted harmonized means testing 
procedures for the GMI, Family Allowance, 
and Heating Benefits are disseminated 
25,000,000 
9) Enacted harmonized disability medical 
assessment criteria are disseminated 
25,000,000 
10) At least 90% of individuals who are certified 
for disability benefits according to the new 
25,000,000 
- 11 - 
 
harmonized disability system are paid 
through NASB 
11) At least 90% of the new applications for 
Low-income Households and Family Policy 
Programs in the preceding two months 
comply with one-application and one-point 
of service operational guidelines 
25,000,000 
12) Administrative costs and client participation 
costs for means-tested programs are reduced 
by 15% from baseline value 
25,000,000 
13) At least one thematic inspection campaign is 
carried out for each of the following 
programs: GMI, Disability Benefits, Family 
Allowance, Heating Benefits, and Child 
Raising Benefits 
25,000,000 
14) Remedial action plan is adopted by NASB to 
address the recommendations of: (i) an 
independent evaluation of the completeness 
and accuracy of the SAFIR information; and 
(ii) a feasibility study of SAFIR data 
crosscheck with other databases 
25,000,000 
15) At least 90% of GMI beneficiaries are paid 
through NASB for two consecutive months 
25,000,000 
16) A central registry with a national database of 
disabled persons is in place 
25,000,000 
17) Sanctions policy provisions, investigative 
powers and the referrals system for the 
Social Inspection are revised and in place 
25,000,000 
18) Three monthly lists of irregularities detected 
by NASB via data matching between SAFIR 
and the databases managed by National 
Public Pension House, and National 
Employment Agency are sent to Social 
Inspection for verification and proposing 
remedial actions 
25,000,000 
19) Risk-based investigation to detect error and 
fraud is used by the Social Inspection for 
Low-income Households Programs, Child 
Raising and Disability Benefits 
25,000,000 
20) Three monthly lists of irregularities detected 
by NASB via data matching between SAFIR 
and the databases of ANAF and Registrul 
National de Evidenta a Populatiei are sent to 
25,000,000 
- 12 - 
 
Social Inspection for verification and 
proposing remedial actions 
 
 
(b) 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amount 
disbursed by the Bank to the Borrower under Category (1) was made for 
reimbursement of expenditures which are not eligible under the EEP or 
not in compliance with the provisions of Section III.B.1 (b) of this 
Schedule and the provisions in the POM, the Borrower shall promptly 
refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2014. 
 
- 13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February 1, 2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
 
1. 
“ANAF” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Tax Administration, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
4. 
“CASBs” means the Borrower’s County Agencies for Social Benefits, or any 
successors thereto. 
5. 
“Child Raising Benefits” means the benefits program as established through the 
Government Emergency Ordinance No. 148/2005 as amended. 
 
6. 
“Complementary Budget for Disabled Adults” means the benefits program as 
established through Law No. 448/2006 as amended. 
 
7. 
“Disability Benefits” means the benefits program as established through Law No. 
448/2006 as amended. 
 
8. 
“DLIs” means the Disbursement-linked Indicators as set forth in Section 
III.B.2.a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such indicators refer to specific 
output and outcome indicators measuring improved performance of the 
Borrower’s Social Assistance System.  
 
9. 
“EC” means European Commission. 
 
10. 
“EEP” means Eligible Expenditure Program, a portion of the Borrower’s 
budgetary allocation for financing benefits under four Social Assistance 
Programs, including: (i) State Child Allowance Program; (ii) Child Raising 
Benefits Program; (iii) Family Allowance Program; and (iv) Guaranteed 
Minimum Income Program. 
 
11. 
“Family Allowance” means benefits established through Law No. 277/2010 as 
amended. 
 
- 15 - 
 
12. 
“Family Policy Programs” means collectively the State Child Allowance 
program (hereinafter defined), Child Raising Benefits program (hereinafter 
defined) or any successors thereto. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010.  
 
14. 
“GDSA” means the Borrower’s General Directorate for Social Assistance within 
the MoLFSP (hereinafter defined), or any successor thereto.  
 
15. 
“GMI” means the Guaranteed Minimum Income as established through Law No. 
416/2001 as amended. 
 
16. 
“Heating Benefits” program means the benefits program as established through 
Government Emergency Ordinance No. 5/2003 as amended. 
 
17. 
“IMF” means International Monetary Fund. 
 
18. 
“Indemnity for Disabled Adults” means the benefits program as established 
through Law No. 448/2006 as amended. 
 
19. 
“Legislation regulating Social Assistance Programs” means the Borrower’s 
relevant legislation regulating the social assistance benefits programs on: (i) State 
Child Allowance; (ii) Child Raising Benefits; (iii) Family Allowance; and (iv) 
Guaranteed Minimum Income, as hereinafter defined. 
 
20. 
“Low-income Households Program” means collectively the Family Allowance 
program (hereinafter defined), GMI (hereinafter defined), Heating Benefits 
program (hereinafter defined) or any successor thereto. 
 
21. 
“M&E” means Monitoring and Evaluation. 
 
22. 
“MoLFSP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Family and Social 
Protection, or any successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“MoPF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance or any successor 
thereto. 
 
24. 
“MoU and the Loan Agreement between Romania and the EC” means the 
Memorandum of Understanding and the Loan Agreement signed between 
Romania and EC dated June 23, 2009 ratified through the Borrower’s Emergency 
Ordinance No. 82/2009 as amended. 
 
- 16 - 
 
25. 
“National Employment Agency” means the Borrower’s agency established under 
the coordination of MoLPFS (hereinafter defined). 
 
26. 
“National Institute for Medical Expertise and Work Capacity Recovery” means 
the institute established under the subordination of the Borrower’s National 
House of Public Pensions. 
 
27. 
“NASB” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Social Benefits, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
28. 
“Payments under the EEP” means monthly payments, out of the Borrower’s 
budgetary allocations, conducted by NASB/CASB  to eligible beneficiaries under 
one of the four Social Assistance Programs referred to in paragraph 34 
hereinabove, made  in accordance with the eligibility criteria, terms and 
provisions set forth in the respective Borrower’s laws and regulations applicable 
to the respective Social Assistance Program. 
 
29. 
“Program Financial Statements” means the annual financial statements for the 
Social Assistance Programs (hereinafter defined) prepared by the Borrower, 
through the MoLFSP and NASB, in accordance with the applicable Romanian 
regulations. 
 
30. 
“POM” means Project Operational Manual to be approved by MoLFSP Order 
and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, describing 
procedures for implementation of the Project, consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement and with the national laws and regulations of the Borrower. 
 
31. 
“Registrul National de Evidenta a Populatiei” means the national registry for the 
population administered by the Borrower’s Ministry of Administration and 
Interior. 
 
32. 
“SAFIR” means Integrated Information System for Administration of Social 
Benefits. 
 
33. 
“Social Assistance Programs” means the Borrower’s four (4) social assistance 
programs eligible for reimbursing under the project, including: (i)  State Child 
Allowance Program; (ii) Child Raising Benefits Program; (iii) Family Allowance 
Program; and (iv) Guaranteed Minimum Income Program. 
 
34. 
“Social Assistance Reform Strategy” means the Borrower’s social assistance 
reform program as adopted by the Government through Memorandum dated 
March 3, 2011. 
 
- 17 - 
 
35. 
“State Child Allowance” means the benefits program as established through Law 
No. 61/1993 as amended. 
 
36. 
“Stand-by Arrangement between Romania and IMF” means the Agreement 
between Romania and IMF as ratified through the Borrower’s Emergency 
Ordinance No. 99/2009 as amended.  
 
 
 
