 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8017-AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Basic Protection Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement as of the Signature Date between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”)  for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).   
 
Whereas by an agreement dated June 10, 2009 between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Original Loan Agreement), the Bank made a loan (Loan No. 7703-AR) to the 
Borrower in an amount equal to four hundred and fifty million Dollars ($450,000,000) to 
assist in the financing of the Original Project, on terms and conditions set forth in the 
Original Loan Agreement.  
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and eighty million 
Dollars ($480,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the National Director of DNPOIC. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
 
-3- 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
-4- 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out, under the overall coordination of DNPOIC:  
 
(a) 
Part 1, Part 3.A and 3.B of the Project through the Ministry of Labor; and 
 
(b) 
Part 2 and Part 3.C of the Project through ANSES, 
 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
IPPF Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its IPP 
Agreement provided, however, that the Bank may only suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account with 
respect to the SCE Grants for SCE Beneficiaries, or with respect to the AF 
Grants for AF Beneficiaries, in the jurisdiction of the pertinent IPPF Entity. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire 
on September 10, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
 
-5- 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance. 
 
 
 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
C1086AAB, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
121942-AR 
 
(54 11) 4349-8815 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Bank on July 26, 2011, and on 
behalf of the Borrower on August 4, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
 
By /s/ Amado Boudou  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
-6- 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Penelope Brook 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project (as included in the Original Project) is to increase the 
effectiveness of the Borrower’s income transfer programs for the unemployed and 
families with children, by improving selected design features and the transparency and 
accountability of the AF Program and the SCE Program, and by transferring beneficiaries 
from other, less effective schemes and programs, to the AF Program and the SCE 
Program. 
  
 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as 
amended solely for purposes of the Loan: 
 
Part 1: SCE Grants 
 
Provision of additional SCE Grants to SCE Beneficiaries. 
 
Part 2: AF Grants 
 
Provision of additional AF Grants to AF Beneficiaries. 
 
Part 3: Technical Assistance  
 
A. 
Design, implementation and analysis of the Second National Social Security and 
Social Protection Survey, as well as carrying out of studies on social protection 
policies. 
 
B. 
Establishment of an alternative data center (including minor refurbishing works) 
to ensure an efficient and safe management of SCE Beneficiaries’ information.  
 
C. 
Design and implementation of a registration process (including planning, 
dissemination and field work activities), aiming at identifying and enrolling 
potential beneficiaries into the AF Program.  
 
 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements and Operational Manual   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain during the execution of the Project, within the DNPOIC, the 
Technical Coordination Unit (TCU) to manage Project implementation 
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed 
with a coordinator, technical experts and other personnel in number and 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
allocate counterpart funds for the financing of the activities of such unit 
and for the implementation of the audit referred to in Section II.C.1 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, prior to providing any SCE Grant in the jurisdiction of a 
given Municipality, either:  
 
(a) 
have established an Employment Office of the Ministry of Labor in the 
jurisdiction of the respective Municipality, and through such 
Employment Office: (i) disseminate among potential beneficiaries the 
SCE Program and register SCE Beneficiaries; (ii) promote the formal 
education and training opportunities of the SCE Beneficiaries; (iii) 
provide the Employment and Training Services; and (iv) if applicable, 
comply with the provisions of the IPPF and IPPs; or 
 
(b) 
enter into an agreement with each Participating Municipality and, as 
applicable, the related Province, setting forth their respective obligations 
with respect to the granting of SCE Grants including, inter alia:  
 
(i) 
the Participating Municipality’s obligation to: (A) disseminate 
among potential beneficiaries the SCE Program and to register 
SCE Beneficiaries; (B) operate the Employment Offices; and (C) 
promote the formal education and training opportunities of the 
SCE Beneficiaries; and  
 
(ii) 
the Participating Municipality’s and/or the Province’s obligation 
to: (A) provide the Employment and Training Services; and (B) 
if applicable, comply with the provisions of the IPPF and IPPs; 
or 
 
-9- 
 
 
(c) 
the Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under each Implementation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Implementation Agreements or 
any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Labor (in respect of Parts 1, 3.A and 3.B 
of the Project) and ANSES (in respect of Parts 2 and 3.C of the Project), carry 
out the Project in accordance with an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of 
the TCU responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project; 
 
(b) 
the criteria for identification, registration and selection of SCE 
Beneficiaries and AF Beneficiaries; the requirements to be fulfilled by 
SCE Beneficiaries and AF Beneficiaries as conditions for the provision 
of SCE Grants and AF Grants respectively (which shall include those set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement); the mechanisms for verification 
of compliance with SCE Grants and AF Grants conditions; the detailed 
procedures for coordination and collaboration among the Participating 
Municipalities, Provinces, other cooperating institutions, and other 
stakeholders in the carrying out of the Project;  
 
(c) 
the procedures for the procurement of goods, Non-Consultant Services 
and consultants’ services under Part 3 of the Project, as well as for 
financial management and audits of the Project (including the audit 
provisions referred to in Sections II.B.3 and II.C.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement); 
 
(d) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
(including the Disbursement Indicators); 
 
(e) 
the flow and disbursement arrangements of Loan Proceeds, including the 
reimbursement mechanisms and advances to a Designated Account for 
the SCE Grants and AF Grants;  
 
(f) 
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; 
 
(g) 
the terms of reference for the contracting of the Surveyor Entities and the 
terms and conditions of the Survey Agreements; and 
 
-10- 
 
(h) 
the terms and conditions of the Participating University Agreements. 
 
 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
4. 
(a) 
Prior to the carrying out of the Second National Social Security and 
Social Protection Survey under Part 3.A of the Project, the Borrower 
shall, through the Ministry of Labor, enter into an agreement with one or 
more Surveyor Entities (the Survey Agreements) under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank (as these are detailed in the 
Operational Manual), for the purpose of assisting the Ministry of Labor 
in the carrying out said Part of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under the Survey Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Survey Agreements or any 
provision thereof. 
 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of the Survey Agreements and 
those of the Operational Manual and/or this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
5. 
(a) 
For purposes of assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of Part 3.C of 
the Project, the Borrower, through ANSES, may enter into logistical 
assistance agreements (“Participating University Agreements”) with 
selected national universities (“Participating Universities”) under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (as these are further detailed in the 
Operational Manual). 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through ANSES, shall: (i) exercise its rights and carry out 
its obligations under each Participating University Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not amend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Participating University Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of the Participating University 
Agreement and those of the Operational Manual and/or this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
 
 
 
 
-11- 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out, and shall cause the IPPF Entities to carry out, the IPPF and 
prepare and carry out each IPP in accordance with such IPPF and IPP; 
and 
 
(b) 
(i) 
prior to providing any SCE Grant and/or any AF Grant (under 
the Non-Contributory Scheme) in the jurisdiction of any 
Province or any Participating Municipality where the IPPF 
applies, enter into an agreement (the IPP Agreement) with the 
respective Province and/or Participating Municipality setting 
forth their respective obligations in the implementation of the 
IPPF and IPPs (any such IPP Agreement could be part of the 
pertinent Implementation Agreement); and  
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, waive or 
fail to enforce any such agreements or  provisions thereof. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Reports, interim unaudited 
 
-12- 
 
financial reports for the Project covering the respective quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
C. 
Eligibility and Disbursement Indicators Compliance Reports 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs A and B above the Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
under terms of reference and with a minimum coverage satisfactory to 
the Bank, verify as part of the annual audits referred to in Section II.B.3 
of this Schedule, that the SCE Beneficiaries and the AF Beneficiaries are 
eligible for receiving the SCE Grants and the AF Grants as per the 
eligibility criteria of the SCE Beneficiaries and the AF Beneficiaries set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
monthly furnish to the Bank the AF SUAF Reports, the AFIP Reports, 
the SCE Reports and reports on the progress with implementation of the 
Project indicators.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services. All goods, works and Non-
consultant Services required for Part 3 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
 
-13- 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
 
Services  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Non-consultant Services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, works and Non-consultant 
Services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Non-consultant Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Consultants Qualifications Selection 
(c) Single Source Selection 
(d) Individual Consultants 
(e) Quality-based Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
 
 
 
 
-14- 
 
E. 
Special Provisions  
 
 
The following special procurement provisions shall apply to procurement under 
the Project: 
 
General 
 
1. 
All procurement shall be done using standard bidding documents, 
standard requests for proposals, model bid evaluation forms, model 
proposal evaluation forms and contract forms previously agreed with the 
Bank.  
 
2. 
Bidding documents for National Competitive Bidding shall include 
anticorruption clauses as required by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and 
acceptable to the Bank, including those that give the Bank audit rights 
over bidders, suppliers, contractors and consultants. These clauses shall 
be substantially identical to those pertaining to the Bank’s standard 
bidding documents for International Competitive Bidding.  
 
3. 
For consultant services contracts, only the types of contracts listed in 
Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines may be used, and “Convenios” 
will not be permitted. 
 
4. 
Foreign and local contractors, service providers, consultants and 
suppliers shall not be required:  
 
(a) 
to register;  
 
(b) 
establish residence in Argentina; or  
 
(c) 
enter into association with other national or international bidders 
as a condition for submitting bids or proposals. 
 
5. 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid opening, 
requests for expressions of interest and notifications of contract award of 
all processes aimed at the procurement of goods, works and services 
(including consultants’ services), as the case may be, shall be published 
in the web page of Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
feed the Bank publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System (SEPA) within 30 days after the Project has been 
approved by the Bank with the information contained in the 
 
-15- 
 
initial Procurement Plan, and maintain such information updated 
at any time along the Project implementation for monitoring 
purposes and reporting; and  
 
(b) 
update the Procurement Plan at least twice a year or as needed  
to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress 
and will feed the SEPA with the information contained in the 
updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
 
7. 
Bidders and consultants shall not be allowed to review or make copies of 
other bidders’ bids or consultants’ proposals, as the case may be. 
 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services  
 
1. 
A two-envelope system of procurement will not be used for the 
procurement of goods, works or Non-Consultant Services (other than 
consultants’ services). 
 
2. 
Contracts of goods, works and Non-consultant Services (other than 
consultants’ services) shall not be awarded to the “most convenient” bid 
but to the one that has been determined to be substantially responsive and 
the lowest evaluated bid, provided that the bidder is determined to be 
qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily. 
 
3. 
Inclusion of the bidder in lists published by specialized magazines will 
not be an acceptable criterion for determining the qualification of such 
bidder. 
 
4. 
Compliance with the International Standards Office (ISO) standards shall 
not be required as a condition for contract award. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
 
 
-16- 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) SCE Grants and AF 
 
Grants  
 
 
 
135,000,000 
100% of the amount of the 
Grants (subject to paragraph 
B.1(b) below) 
(2) SCE Grants and AF 
 
Grants 
 
 
 
112,500,000 
100% of the amount of the 
Grants (subject to paragraph 
B.1(c) below) 
(3) SCE Grants and AF 
 
Grants 
 
 
 
112,600,000 
100% of the amount of the 
Grants (subject to paragraph 
B.1(d) below) 
(4) SCE Grants and AF 
 
Grants 
 
 
90,000,000 
100% of the amount of the 
Grants (subject to paragraph 
B.1(e) below) 
(5) Goods, works, Non-
 
consultant Services, 
 
consultants’ services  
 
and Operating Costs for 
 
Part 3 of the Project  
 
 
 
 
28,700,000 
 
100% 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
1,200,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(7) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
 
0 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
480,000,000 
 
 
3. 
For purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable 
cost of recurrent expenditures for the implementation of Part 3 of the Project 
(excluding salaries) such as lodging, per diem, transportation costs and data-
collection costs, which would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
 
 
 
-17- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $96,000,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date (but in any case, 
within twelve months prior to the Signature Date) for Eligible 
Expenditures if the pertinent obligations/conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, as applicable to each Eligible Expenditure have been 
complied with; 
 
 
(b) 
under Category (1) unless the Borrower shall have provided evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that the First Set of Target Values has been met 
at least at the level specified in the table in paragraph B.2 below; 
 
(c) 
under Category (2) after the amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account 
under Category (1) shall have reached the amount of $135,000,000, 
unless: 
 
(i) 
the Borrower shall have provided evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that the Second Set of Target Values has been met at least 
at the level specified in the table in paragraph B.2 below;  
 
(ii) 
the Borrower shows to the satisfaction of the Bank, in the event 
that all or any part of the Loan proceeds have been withdrawn 
from the Loan Account as Advances to a Designated Account, 
that all such Loan proceeds were used by the Borrower to make 
SCE Grants and AF Grants; and 
 
(iii) 
at least six months have elapsed from the Effective Date. 
 
(d) 
under Category (3) after the aggregate amounts withdrawn from the Loan 
Account under Categories (1) and (2) shall have reached the amount of 
$247,500,000, unless: 
 
(i) 
the Borrower shall have provided evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that the Third Set of Target Values has been met at least at 
the level specified in the table in paragraph B.2 below; 
  
(ii) 
the Borrower shows to the satisfaction of the Bank, in the event 
that all or any part of the Loan proceeds have been withdrawn 
from the Loan Account as Advances to a Designated Account, 
 
-18- 
 
that all such Loan proceeds were used by the Borrower to make 
SCE Grants and AF Grants; and 
 
(iii) 
at least twelve months have elapsed from the Effective Date. 
 
(e) 
under Category (4) after the aggregate amounts withdrawn from the Loan 
Account under Categories (1), (2) and (3) shall have reached the amount 
of $360,100,000, unless: 
 
(i) 
the Borrower shall have provided evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that the Fourth Set of Target Values has been met at least 
at the level specified in the table in paragraph B.2 below;  
 
(ii) 
the Borrower shows to the satisfaction of the Bank, in the event 
that all or any part of the Loan proceeds have been withdrawn 
from the Loan Account as Advances to a Designated Account, 
that all such Loan proceeds were used by the Borrower to make 
SCE Grants and AF Grants; and 
(iii) 
at least eighteen months have elapsed from the Effective Date. 
 
(f) 
For purposes of Section IV.B. of this Schedule, evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank means evidence as described in paragraph 3 below. 
 
 
-19- 
 
2. 
The Disbursement Indicators shall be as follows: 
     Target Values 
 
 
Disbursement Indicators  
Baseline  
First 
Set 
Second 
Set 
Third 
   Set 
Fourth 
Set 
a. Average of the monthly percentages of 
beneficiaries of the SCE Program 
receiving Employment and Training 
Services of the total number of 
beneficiaries of the SCE Program, 
during the 12-month period preceding 
the date in which the Disbursement 
Indicator is measured. 
26% 
26% 
27% 
30% 
32% 
b. Number of beneficiaries registered in the 
SCE Program. 
121,000 
131,000 
141,000 
151,000 
161,000 
c. Number of Employment Offices 
authorized for delivery of Employment 
and Training Services through 
Implementation Agreements signed 
between the Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Labor, and the respective 
Participating Municipality or Province.  
296 
300 
310 
330 
350 
d. Average of the monthly percentages of 
payments made through SUAF of the 
total payments made under the AF 
Program to salaried workers in the 
private sector during the 12-month 
period preceding the date in which the 
Disbursement Indicator is measured. 
82.2% 
90% 
95% 
98% 
98% 
e. Number of AUH Reports (cumulative) 
published and publicly accessible. 
0 
1 
2 
4 
5 
f. Number of children (in thousands) under 
18 years old that have been registered in 
ANSES ADP database and are receiving 
a family allowance benefit from ANSES 
or are excluded due to reasons indicated 
in the Borrower’s applicable legislation. 
9700 
9866 
9950 
10101 
10157 
 
3. 
For purposes of demonstrating compliance with the Disbursement Indicators, the 
Borrower shall submit: 
 
(a) 
with respect of the Disbursement Indicators set forth in items (a), (b) and 
(c) of the table in paragraph 2 above, the information published in the 
SCE Reports;  
 
-20- 
 
 
(b) 
with respect to the Disbursement Indicator set forth in item (d) of the 
table in paragraph 2 above, the information published in the AF SUAF 
Reports and the AFIP Reports;  
 
(c) 
with respect to the Disbursement Indicator set forth in item (e) of the 
table in paragraph 2 above, the number of AUH Reports published and 
publicly accessible; and 
 
(d) 
with respect to the Disbursement Indicator set forth in item (f) of the 
table in paragraph 2 above, the AUH Report for the respective 4-month 
period in which the Disbursement Indicators are measured. 
 
4. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2014. 
 
 
-21- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2017 
 
through April 15, 2037 
 
2.44% 
On October 15, 2037 
2.40% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
 
-22- 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
 
-23- 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Requirements for Provision of SCE Grants and AF Grants 
 
1. 
The amount of the SCE Grant shall be as applicable below for an SCE 
Beneficiary: 
 
(a) 
for Per Diem: Arg$ 225 per person per month for activities already 
carried out by the SCE Beneficiary; 
 
(b) 
for SCE Payment: Arg$ 225 per person per month; and 
 
(c) 
for Incentives, if and when the incentives are approved by the Bank: the 
amount and under conditions as then approved by the Bank. 
 
2. 
The amount of the AF Grant shall be: 
 
(a) 
For those AF Beneficiaries under the Contributory Scheme: 
 
(i) 
for AF Beneficiaries with monthly salaries between Arg$ 100 
and Arg$ 2,400: Arg$ 220 per child per month; 
 
(ii) 
for AF Beneficiaries with monthly salaries between Arg$ 2,400 
and Arg$ 3,600: Arg$ 166 per child per month; and 
 
(iii) 
for AF Beneficiaries with monthly salaries between Arg$ 3,600 
and Arg$ 4,800: Arg$ 111 per child per month.  
 
The amount of an AF Grant for AF Beneficiaries living in less advantaged 
regions will be increased in the proportion set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
For those AF Beneficiaries under the Non-Contributory Scheme (up to a 
maximum of five children per family) the amount of the AF Grant shall 
be Arg$ 220 per child per month. 
 
3. 
The eligibility criteria for SCE Grants shall be: 
 
(a) 
To receive a SCE Grant, the SCE Beneficiary must comply with the 
following conditions, as shall be relevant for each such beneficiary: 
 
(i) 
must be unemployed; 
 
(ii) 
cannot be a beneficiary of other income transfer programs, 
including national or subnational workfare, retirement, or other 
non-contributory schemes; 
 
-24- 
 
 
(iii) 
must be registered in the database of the Ministry of Labor; and  
 
(iv) 
must sign an agreement to join the program with: (A) the 
Ministry of Labor (when the enrollment of the SCE Beneficiary 
was made directly through an Employment Office established by 
the Ministry of Labor); or (B) a Participating Municipality (or 
related Province), whereby the SCE Beneficiary agrees to: 
 
(a) 
accept job offers received through the Employment 
Office; 
 
(b) 
participate in interviews and job placement workshops 
organized by the Employment Office; and 
 
(c) 
join training activities (both basic and professional) 
offered to them by the Employment Office. 
 
(b) 
A SCE Beneficiary is excluded from the SCE Program when: 
 
(i) 
he or she finds a formal job; 
 
(ii) 
he or she receives the benefit for a period of, unless otherwise 
agreed by the Bank, two years; 
 
(iii) 
he or she rejects job offers without justification; and/or  
 
(iv) 
he or she fails to comply with the conditions set in the agreement 
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (iv) above. 
 
(c) 
With respect to SCE Grants for SCE Beneficiaries residing in a Province 
or Participating Municipality for which the IPPF applies, the SCE Grants 
shall not be deemed eligible for Loan financing unless:  
 
(i) 
the IPP Agreement has been signed with the IPPF Entity or 
Entities, as the case may be; and 
 
(ii) 
the IPP has been approved by the Bank. 
 
All above conditions shall be verified by the Ministry of Labor. 
 
 
 
 
 
-25- 
 
4. 
To receive an AF Grant, the AF Beneficiary must comply with the following 
conditions, as shall be relevant for each such beneficiary: 
 
(a) 
For those AF Beneficiaries under the Contributory Scheme: 
 
(i) 
must be a worker, formally employed as salaried by a private 
firm registered in SUAF; 
 
(ii) 
must provide family information, including date of birth and tax 
number identification for all children, as registered in ANSES’ 
data system; 
 
(iii) 
must have children younger than 18 years old who live in 
Argentina who are single and under the AF Beneficiary’s care; 
and 
 
(iv) 
must have a gross monthly salary of up to Arg$ 4,800. 
 
(b) 
For those AF Beneficiaries under the Non-Contributory Scheme: 
 
(i) 
must be unemployed or informally employed, with a monthly 
income below the Legal Minimum Wage; 
 
(ii) 
may not receive benefits from any other social program at the 
national, provincial or municipal level, including those from 
social insurance and social assistance systems; 
 
(iii) 
must have children younger than 18 years old living in Argentina 
and single, under their care, including natural, adopted, and/or 
foster children;  
 
(iv) 
his or her family information, including date of birth and tax 
number identification for all his or her children, is registered in 
ANSES’ data system; 
 
(v) 
his or her children must be Argentine citizens, or foreigners with 
at least three years of legal residence in Argentina; and 
 
(vi) 
his or her children must receive regular health check-ups and 
vaccinations, and attend public schools if older than five years 
old. 
 
 
 
 
-26- 
 
5. 
With respect to AF Grants (under the Non-Contributory Scheme) for AF 
Beneficiaries residing in a Province or Participating Municipality for which the 
IPPF applies, the AF Grants (under the Non-Contributory Scheme) shall not be 
deemed eligible for Loan financing unless:  
 
(i) 
the IPP Agreement has been signed with the IPPF Entity or Entities, as 
the case may be; and 
 
(ii) 
the IPP has been approved by the Bank. 
 
The conditions expressed in paragraphs 4 and 5 herein shall be verified by 
ANSES. 
 
6. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the paragraphs 1 to 4 above, the amounts and 
eligibility criteria specified therein may be modified as proposed by the Borrower 
and agreed by the Bank. 
 
 
-27- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
(1) 
“Advances to a Designated Account” means advances of the proceeds of the 
Loan to the account indicated in the additional instructions referred to in Section 
IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and made in accordance with the terms 
of such instructions. 
 
(2) 
“AF Beneficiary” means an individual who meets the criteria set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the Operational Manual to benefit from an 
AF Grant.  
 
(3) 
“AF Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower, 
through ANSES, to the bank account of the AF Beneficiary. 
 
(4) 
“AF Program” means Asignaciones Familiares, the Borrower’s system 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 24,714 published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on October 18, 1996, as amended by the Borrower’s 
executive decree No. 1602/09 dated October 29, 2009, and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on October 30, 2009. 
 
(5) 
“AF SUAF Report” means any of the monthly resolutions signed by ANSES’ 
finance manager and containing the payment order to AF Beneficiaries through 
the SUAF. 
 
(6) 
“AFIP Report” means the monthly information generated by Administración 
Federal de Ingresos Públicos, the Borrower’s Public Income Federal 
Administration, on the payments made to AF Beneficiaries through the 
compensatory system, in its publication entitled Informe Gerencial.  
 
(7) 
“ANSES” means Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, the 
Borrower’s social security administration, established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 2741/ 1991, as a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Labor 
without legal personality separate from that of the Borrower.  
 
(8) 
“ANSES ADP database” means Administración de Personas, ANSES’ main 
database for individuals. 
 
(9) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
 
(10) 
“Arg$” means Peso, the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
 
-28- 
 
(11) 
“AUH” means Asignación Universal por Hijo para la Protección Social, the 
Borrower’s non-contributory component of the AF Program, created through the 
Borrower’s Executive decree No. 1602/09 (which amended the AF Program), 
dated October 29, 2009, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on 
October 30, 2009. 
 
(12) 
“AUH Report” means the statistical report on AUH, prepared and published 
every four months by ANSES, in the form and substance specified to that effect 
in the Operational Manual. 
 
(13) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(14) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
(15) 
“Contributory Scheme” means the contributory component of the AF Program as 
defined by Article 1, Section A, of the Borrower’s Law 24,714. 
 
(16) 
“Disbursement Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the table in Section 
IV.B. 2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(17) 
“DNPOIC” means Dirección Nacional de Proyectos con Organismos 
Internacionales de Crédito, the Borrower’s National Directorate of Projects with 
International Credit Organizations of its Ministry of Economy and Public 
Finance. 
 
(18) 
“Employment and Training Services” means: (i) formal education; (ii) training; 
(iii) job placement; (iv) self-employment services; (v) micro-enterprises; (vi) 
training in workfare projects; and (vii) labor orientation and job search 
workshops. 
 
(19) 
“Employment Office” means an office established by the Ministry of Labor, a 
Participating Municipality (or related Province) and incorporated to the network 
of Employment and Training Services of the Ministry of Labor. 
 
(20) 
“First Set of Target Values” means the target indicators set forth in the second 
column in the table in Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(21) 
“Fourth Set of Target Values” means the target indicators set forth in the fifth 
column in the table in Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
-29- 
 
(22) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
(23) 
“Grants” means SCE Grants and AF Grants. 
 
(24) 
“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.A.2 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(25) 
“Incentives” means payments (through bank debit cards) for SCE Beneficiaries 
to be proposed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank as a new eligible 
expenditure of the SCE Grant to promote participation of beneficiaries in the 
Employment and Training Services provided to them. 
 
(26) 
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means any of the plans prepared and/or 
updated (as the case may be) pursuant to the IPPF, and carried out following the 
requirements of said IPPF and the Operational Manual. 
 
(27) 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the framework for 
preparation of Indigenous Peoples Plans by the relevant IPPF Entities as set forth 
in the Operational Manual. 
 
(28) 
“IPP Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C.1 (b) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(29) 
“IPPF Entity” means any Province or any Participating Municipality that meets 
the requirements of the IPPF to be deemed an IPPF Entity. 
 
(30) 
“ISO” means International Organization for Standardization, an international 
standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national 
standards organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and 
commercial standards for products. 
 
(31) 
“Legal Minimum Wage” means Salario, Mínimo, Vital y Móvil, the Borrower’s 
minimum legal wage as this is set forth in the Borrower’s Law 24,013, and 
adjusted from time to time in accordance with the Borrower’s legislation. 
 
(32) 
“Ministry of Labor” means the Borrower’s Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y 
Seguridad Social. 
 
(33) 
“Municipality” means a political sub-division within any of the Provinces. 
 
(34) 
“Non-consultant Services” means services which will be bid and contracted on 
the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs, and which are not 
otherwise covered by any other category of Eligible Expenditures. 
 
-30- 
 
 
(35) 
“Non-Contributory Scheme” means the non-contributory component of the AF 
Program as defined by Article 1, Section C, of the Borrower’s Law 24,714. 
 
(36) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated March 20, 2009 and updated on 
February 3, 2011, approved by the Bank on the same date, as the same may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
(37) 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the agreement dated June 10, 2009 between 
the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 7703-AR), as amended. 
 
(38) 
“Original Project” means the Basic Protection Project whose objective and 
activities are set forth in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan Agreement (as said 
term is defined herein). 
 
(39) 
“Participating Municipality” means any Municipality which meets the criteria to 
participate in the SCE Program. 
 
(40) 
“Participating University” means a national public university as defined by 
Article 48 of the Borrower’s Law No. 24.521.  
 
(41) 
“Participating University Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section I.A.5 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(42) 
“Per Diem” means a payment (through bank debit cards) to a SCE Beneficiary 
designed to cover expenses incurred by the SCE Beneficiary in connection with 
his or her participation in formal education, training and training in workforce 
projects of the  SCE Program (such as transportation and child care services 
expenses). 
 
(43) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
(44) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 3, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(45) 
“Province” means any political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of 
the Borrower’s Constitution, and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, and the 
term “Provinces” means all said political subdivisions. 
 
 
-31- 
 
(46) 
“SCE Beneficiary” means an individual who meets the criteria set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the Operational Manual to benefit from a 
SCE Grant and is eligible to receive Employment and Training Services. 
 
(47) 
“SCE Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan by the 
Borrower, through its Ministry of Labor, to a SCE Beneficiary. 
 
(48) 
“SCE Payment” means an income transfer payment (through bank debit card) to 
a SCE Beneficiary as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the 
Operational Manual. 
 
(49) 
“SCE Program” means Seguro de Capacitación y Empleo, the Borrower’s 
Training and Employment Insurance System established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 336, dated March 23, 2006.  
 
(50) 
“SCE Reports” means the Ministry of Labor’s publications entitled: Informe 
Mensual de Ejecución y Perfil de los Adherentes, a monthly report on SCE 
implementation and participants profiles, and Informe Mensual de Altas y Bajas, 
a monthly report on SCE new participants and ex-participants. 
 
(51) 
“Second National Social Security and Social Protection Survey” means the 
second round of the social protection survey through which the Borrower will 
continue to assess, inter alia: (a) the insertion of additional workers in the labor 
market; and (b) the access to, and impact of, the social programs carried out in 
the Borrower’s territory, including such programs’: (i) income transfers; (ii) 
health and education services provided; and (iii) in-kind transfers. 
 
(52) 
“Second Set of Target Values” means the target indicators set forth in the third 
column in the table in Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(53) 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
 
(54) 
“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and 
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references 
to “the date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions. 
 
(55) 
“SUAF” means Sistema Único de Asignaciones Familiares, the Borrower’s 
system established pursuant to ANSES Resolution 641/2003, and consisting of a 
system for the payment of family allowances to the salaried workers in the 
private sector beneficiaries of the AF Program directly to such workers. 
 
(56) 
“Survey Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.A.4 
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
-32- 
 
(57) 
“Surveyor Entity” means any private or public entity (or entities), acceptable to 
the Bank, that may assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part 3.A of the 
Project, and that complies with the technical eligibility criteria set forth to that 
effect in the Operational Manual.  
 
(58) 
“TCU” means Unidad de Coordinación de Programas y Proyectos con 
Préstamos Sectoriales Amplios, the unit established and operating pursuant to the 
Ministry of Economy and Public Finance’s Resolution No. 664-08. 
 
(59) 
“Third Set of Target Values” means the target indicators set forth in the fourth 
column in the table in Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modification to the General Conditions is as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. Eligible Expenditures 
... 
(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of goods, works, 
services or grants required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and procured, in the case of goods, works and services, all in 
accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;” 
 
 
