 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7985-CO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Río Bogotá Environmental Recuperation and Flood Control Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
 
CORPORACIÓN AUTÓNOMA REGIONAL DE CUNDINAMARCA 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 15, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 15, 2011, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and CORPORACIÓN 
AUTÓNOMA REGIONAL DE CUNDINAMARCA (“Borrower”), established and 
operating under the Republic of Colombia’s legislation.  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars ($ 
250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower with the prior approval of the Guarantor may at any time 
request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in 
order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan 
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
   
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
Either the Republic of Colombia’s Law 99 of 1993 or Convenio 171 shall 
have amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely in the opinion of the Bank the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; 
provided, however, that the Bank, in deciding to make use of this 
remedial action, would take into account if a substitute legislation and/or 
legal arrangement has been put in place and, in the opinion of the Bank, 
would enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
that the Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto and the Project Manager have 
been established and appointed, respectively, pursuant to paragraph 
A.1(a) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual pursuant to 
paragraph B.1. of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
   
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on June 14, 2012. 
  
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Director General.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Director General 
Corporación Autónoma Regional de Cundinamarca 
Carrera 7 # 36-45 
Bogotá, Colombia 
 
Facsimile: 
(571) 3209000 Ext. 1639 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Geoffrey Bergen  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
CORPORACIÓN AUTÓNOMA REGIONAL DE 
CUNDINAMARCA 
 
 
By /s/ Edgar Alfonso Bejarano 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to transform the Río Bogotá 
river into an environmental asset for the Bogotá Distrito Capital metropolitan region by 
improving water quality, reducing flood risks and creating multi-functional areas along 
the said river. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Upgrading and Expansion of the Salitre WWTP 
 
Upgrade and expansion of the Salitre Waste Water Treatment Plant from a 4m3/s 
primary plant to an about 8m3/s secondary plant to treat, convey and discharge the waste 
water from the Salitre, Torca and Jaboque micro-basins to Río Bogotá and potentially the 
Distrito de Riego La Ramada, including provision of consultants’ services for the design, 
construction and supervision therefor. 
 
Part B: Flood Control and Río Bogotá Environmental Restoration Works  
 
Reduce flood risk and establishment of multifunctional zones along the Río Bogotá river 
through the carrying out of flood control and environmental improvement works, 
including river dredging, embankment construction, restoration of riparian habitats, 
meanders and wetlands, land acquisition, involuntary displacement of people, landscape 
design, and establishment of parks, and the provision of consultants’ services for the 
design, construction and supervision therefor. 
 
Part C: Environmental and Water Studies 
 
The carrying out of studies to assist in the environmental sustainability of the Río Bogotá, 
including the elaboration of: (i) an integrated water management plan for the Río Bogotá 
basin; (ii) a bio-solids master plan for the metropolitan region of Bogotá Distrito Capital; 
and (iii) a river management plan for Río Bogotá, and provision of consultants’ services 
therefor.  
 
Part D: Project Management and Administration 
 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower for the day-to-day implementation of the 
Project, including: (i) compliance with financial, environmental and procurement 
management, reporting requirements and monitoring and supervision activities, 
implementation of the RAP and EMP; (ii) the carrying out of a public outreach campaign; 
(iii) training; and (iv) the provision of consultants’ services therefor.  
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
 establish and maintain until completion of the Project the Unidad 
Ejecutora de Proyecto (UEP) headed by a qualified and experienced 
Project manager, directly reporting to the Borrower’s Director General, 
responsible 
for 
the 
day-to-day 
implementation, 
management, 
coordination and supervision of the Project, and to provide technical 
support to the Comité Directivo established under Convenio 171.  The 
UEP shall be assigned at all times during Project implementation with 
qualified and experienced personnel adequate in numbers, and provided 
with such other resources and funds as shall be necessary to achieve its 
purposes; and 
 
(b) 
take all such action as shall be necessary to comply with its obligations 
under Convenio 171. 
 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall adopt and thereafter apply in the carrying out of the Project 
an operational manual (the Operational Manual) under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with any 
provision in this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. The 
Borrower shall not amend, waive, abrogate, suspend or fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual, or any provision thereof without the Bank’s prior written 
consent. 
 
3. 
For purposes of carrying out the works to convey the treated effluent from the 
Salitre Waste Water Treatment Plant to the Distrito de Riego La Ramada, the 
Borrower shall undertake the additional necessary technical, financial, economic, 
social and environmental studies under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Bank the viability of the proposed 
works, adopt and thereafter apply in the implementation of such Part of the 
Project the necessary environmental and social measures and plans pursuant to 
the provisions of the Bank Safeguard Policies. 
 
- 7 - 
4. 
With respect to the Project activities to be carried out under Part C of the Project, 
the Borrower shall, and shall cause to ensure, that the terms of reference for said 
Project activities include a provision, satisfactory to the Bank, mandating that the 
Borrower incorporates and causes to be incorporated the applicable Bank 
Safeguard Policies to said Project activities, as required. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the EMP and 
the RAP, as the case may be; and  
 
(b) 
not amend, waive, abrogate, suspend or fail to enforce the provisions of 
the EMP and RAP, or any of their provisions without the Bank’s prior 
written consent. 
 
E. 
Other Implementation  
 
1. 
(a)  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes that 
the proceeds deposited in the FIAB Principal Account shall be used as 
part of the Borrower’s Aporte Local for the financing and 
implementation of the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall not 
abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend, waive or fail to enforce 
Acuerdo 28 of 2005 or Acuerdo 15 of 2007, or any provision thereof if in 
the opinion of the Bank any of such actions shall affect the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower further undertakes to apply the Bank’s procurement 
procedures referred to in Section III, Schedule 2 to this Agreement in the 
use of all the Aporte Local required for the financing and implementation 
of the Project, except for costs related to land acquisition, resettlement 
and rehabilitation under the RAP.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth 
in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five 
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project, regardless of 
their source of funding, except for costs related to land acquisition, resettlement 
and rehabilitation under the RAP, shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project, 
regardless of their source of funding, shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to its reporting obligations under this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) supply the SEPA with the information 
contained in the initial Procurement Plan within forty (45) days after the Project 
has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least 
once a year, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual Project 
implementation needs and progress and shall supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  Annex A to this Schedule 2 
specifies the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set 
forth in Section I of Annex A to this Schedule 2. 
(b) 
Shopping. 
(c)    Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.   
 
- 10 - 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  Except as otherwise 
indicated in the following table, the Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
(e) 
Single-source Selection 
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance the Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) Works and Goods 
 
 
224,000,000 
100% 
(2) Consultant Services 
 
 
25,000,000 
100% 
(3) Operational Costs, 
 
Training and Workshops  
 
 
1,000,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
250,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
 
 
- 12 - 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
Additional Provisions Relating to  
Particular Methods of Procurement 
 
Section I. 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following 
additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall use, or cause to 
be used, standard bidding documents, as approved by the Bank for 
bidding under the Project and incorporated in the Operational Manual 
(the “Standard Bidding Documents”). Any change or departure from the 
Standard Bidding Document approved by the Bank shall require its prior 
approval. 
 
(b) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or citizens of the 
Borrower’s territory, will be treated equally and, particularly, no 
preference will be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for bid 
evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their bids by 
hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall 
not be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's 
registration in any public registry, chamber of commerce or similar 
entity, whether in the Borrower’s territory or elsewhere, or to appoint a 
representative domiciled in Borrower’s territory, unless and until such 
bidder is awarded the corresponding contract. 
 
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and 
place for the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding 
documents. Bid opening shall coincide with, or take place promptly after, 
the final date and time of the period for bid submission stipulated in the 
bidding documents. 
 
(d) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial 
standards of capability and whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made exclusively on 
the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
- 13 - 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied 
for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely 
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall 
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, 
including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
(e) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the 
persons officially charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating 
the bids while they are performing their official duties, without the 
corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not 
be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of 
contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of 
the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which confidentiality 
has been specifically requested by the bidder in question. 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
November 15, 2015 
November 15, 2016 
November 15, 2017 
November 15, 2018 
November 15, 2019 
November 15, 2020 
November 15, 2021 
November 15, 2022 
November 15, 2023 
November 15, 2024 
 
 
3.30% 
5.92% 
8.00% 
8.85% 
10.00% 
10.99% 
12.00% 
13.00% 
13.80% 
14.14% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
- 15 - 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
- 16 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Acuerdo 28” means the Borrower’s Consejo Directivo Decision dated August 
31, 2005 providing for the establishment and management of a designated fund 
named Fondo para las Inversiones Ambientales en el Perimetro Urbano de 
Bogotá (FIAB) to be funded with the environmental portion of the property tax 
annual revenues transferred from Bogotá Distrito Capital to the Borrower 
pursuant to article 44 of the Borrower’s Legislation, as said Acuerdo 28 has been 
amended by Acuerdo 15. 
 
2. 
“Acuerdo 15” means the Borrower’s Consejo Directivo Decision dated 19 of 
June 2007, amending Acuerdo 28, inter alia, to re-define the scope of the use of 
FIAB proceeds to cover the Megaproyecto Río Bogotá. 
 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Aporte Local” means the Borrower’s funds, other than the proceeds of the Loan, 
required for the financing of the Project and to be used pursuant to the procedures 
set forth in the Loan Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Bank Safeguard Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and procedures 
set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said Manual is published under 
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual. 
 
6. 
“Bogotá Distrito Capital” means a political and administrative subdivision of the 
Republic of Colombia.  
 
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
9. 
“Convenio 171” means the agreement signed on June 26, 2007 among the 
Borrower, Bogotá Distrito Capital-Secretaria de Ambiente, and Empresa de 
Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogotá,  for purposes of implementing the 
Megaproyecto Río Bogota described therein and aimed at achieving the 
environmental sustainability of Río Bogotá river. 
- 17 - 
10. 
“Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogotá” and the acronym “EAAB” 
means, the Water and Sewerage Company of Bogotá Distrito Capital. 
 
11. 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” means the plan 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower on January 18, 2010, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the management of the environmental aspects of the Project, and 
disclosed to the public on February 2010  and said plan may be amended from 
time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“FIAB Principal Account” means the account in which the proceeds of the 
environmental portion of the property tax annual revenues are deposited pursuant 
to the terms of Acuerdo 28 and Acuerdo 15, which proceeds are transferred from 
Bogotá Distrito Capital to the Borrower pursuant to the Republic of Colombia’s 
Law 99 of 1993.  
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
14. 
“Guarantor” means the Republic of Colombia. 
 
15. 
“Operating costs” means  reasonable expenditures directly related to the Project, 
incurred by the Borrower (which expenditures would not have been incurred 
absent the Project) including the costs of  office equipment and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel costs including per diem and supervision 
costs and salaries of locally contracted employees, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
16. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by 
the Borrower pursuant to paragraph B.1. of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement for purposes of implementing the Project, as such manual may be 
amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.  
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 21, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, in Spanish, named 
“Plan de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones”, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
- 18 - 
19. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” means the plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower on May 21, 2010 and referred in paragraph 
D.1 of Section 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in Spanish, named “Plan de 
Gestión Social para la Compra de Areas y Derechos Adquiridos sobre los 
Terrenos que requiere el Proyecto de Adecuación Hidráulica y Recuperación 
Ambiental del Río Bogotá – Colombia, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
20. 
“Río Bogotá Environmental Recuperation and Flood Control Project” and the 
term “Project” means in Spanish “Adecuación Hidráulica y Recuperación 
Ambiental del Río Bogotá”. 
 
21. 
“Salitre Waste Water Treatment Plant” and the acronym “WWTP” means the 
waste water treatment plant to treat, convey and discharge the waste water from 
the Salitre, Torca and Jaboque micro-basins to be upgraded and expanded under 
Part A of the Project. 
 
22. 
“SEPA” means Sistema de Ejecución de Plan de Adquisiciones”, the Bank’s 
Procurement Plan Execution System. 
 
23. 
“Training” means expenditures (other than for consultant’s services incurred by 
the Borrower) in respect of Category 3, to finance: (a) reasonable per diem cost, 
and travel, room and board expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in 
connection with their training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) 
course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d) training material preparation, 
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses. 
 
24. 
“Unidad Ejecutora de Proyecto” and the acronym “UEP”, means the Project 
executing unit established by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph A.1. (a) of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Workshops” means seminars, conferences and similar events in which the 
participants address specific issues related to the Project. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 19 - 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier 
that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
Section III. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) 
and all other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, 
in the event that the Borrower or the individual or entity has been 
debarred by another financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the 
use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or 
- 20 - 
an individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such 
Borrower, individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; 
(ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for 
example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the 
preparation or implementation of the project or any other project 
financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged 
in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with 
which the Bank has entered into an agreement for the mutual 
enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person or entity 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any 
project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices 
in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
- 21 - 
 
