CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8050-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Development Policy Loan to Foster More Inclusive Growth) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 15, 2011 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 15, 2011, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
THE PHILIPPINES (“the Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“the Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions 
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars 
($250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
2
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
3
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out 
the Program and that the Borrower has maintained an appropriate 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of Department of Finance. 
 
4
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 
Roxas Blvd. 
 
Manila, Philippines 
 
Cable address:  Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN 
(63-2) 526-9990 
 
Manila  
 
(63-2) 523-9216 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
5
AGREED at Manila, Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By /s/ Cesar V. Purisima 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Bert Hofman 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
1. 
The Borrower has commenced restructuring the Large Taxpayer Service under 
the approved LTS Rationalization Plan; has approved its Revenue Regulation No 
17-2010 (dated November 16, 2010) which broadens the selection criteria for 
large taxpayers; and has added about 747 taxpayers to the LTS as of January 1, 
2011. 
2. 
The Borrower has submitted the revised Fiscal Incentives Rationalization Bill to 
Congress and has identified it as a priority bill.
3. 
The DBCC has published a Fiscal Risks Statement as a reference for the 2011 
Budget. 
4. 
Senate Bill No. 2640 whose objectives are, among other things, to promote 
financial viability and fiscal discipline in corporations owned and controlled by 
the Borrower, in part through temporary delegation of reform powers from 
Congress to the Executive, has been filed in Congress. 
5. 
The new web-based Enhanced Business Name Registration System adopted by 
DTI has reduced the average time required for a business name registration to 15 
minutes.
6. 
To strengthen transparency and accountability, the 2011 General Appropriations 
(Act No. 10147), adopted by Congress, has mandated that the implementation 
status and fund utilization of major programs and projects be posted by the 
Borrower’s departments and agencies on their official websites, and that DBM 
post on its website all releases and realignments under the Borrower’s priority 
development assistance fund. 
7. 
The medium term expenditure framework of DepEd has been updated to reflect 
the resources required to implement its policies, programs and strategies, 
including the K to 12 Program.
8. 
The GASTPE budget allocation that funds the Education Service Contracting 
Program of DepEd has been increased by 48% in 2011 as compared to 2010.
7
9. 
PhilHealth has adopted Board Resolution No. 1479, for the implementation of 
the partial insurance premium subsidy program for the Near-Poor. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the 
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
249,375,000 
(2) Front-end Fee 
625,000 
(3) Amount due pursuant to Section 2.07(c) 
of this Agreement for Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar premium 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
250,000,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with 
the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts 
1. 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and shall thereafter maintain a Deposit 
Account in Dollars in Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account. 
8
3. 
Upon the deposit of the amount of the Loan into the Deposit Account, the 
Borrower shall ensure that an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
Audit 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
F. 
Excluded Expenditures.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
G. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is March 31, 2012. 
 
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each April 1 and October 1 
 
Beginning October 1, 2021  
 
through April 1, 2036 
 
3.23% 
On October 1, 2036 
3.10% 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange 
rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by 
the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or 
(ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
3. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
10 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Congress” means the Borrower’s national legislative body. 
2. 
“DBCC” means the Development Budget and Coordination Committee, a 
committee under the NEDA Board established for the purposes, among other 
things, of recommending to the President of the Borrower (a) the level of annual 
expenditures and the ceiling of spending for economic and social development, 
(b) national defense, and government debt service; (c) proper allocation of 
expenditures for each development activity between current operating 
expenditures and capital outlays; and (d) the amount set to be allocated for 
capital outlays broken down into the various capital or infrastructure projects. 
3. 
“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget Management; or any 
successor thereto. 
4. 
“DepEd” means the Borrower’s Department of Education, or any successor 
thereto. 
5. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1 of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
6. 
“DOH” means the Borrower’s Department of Health, or any successor thereof. 
7. 
“DTI” means the Borrower’s Department of Trade and Industry, or any successor 
thereto. 
8. 
“Education Service Contracting Program” means the Borrower’s program under 
the GASTPE (as hereinafter defined) established and maintained for the purpose 
of contracting with private schools to enroll students in areas where there is a 
shortage of places in public high schools. 
9. 
“Enhanced Business Name Registration System” means the web-based business 
name registration system implemented by DTI pursuant to its Department 
Administrative Order 10-08 series of 2010 for the purpose of making business 
name registration easier and faster  
10. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
11 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
12 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
11. 
“Fiscal Incentives Rationalization Bill” means House Bill No. 4252 filed in 
Congress, whose objective is to rationalize fiscal incentives given to business 
enterprises for paying taxes by removing redundant incentives and ensuring that 
incentives will be given only where necessary. 
12. 
“Fiscal Risks Statement” means the document containing a comprehensive 
quantitative and qualitative evaluation of fiscal risks faced by the Borrower, 
prepared and published by DBCC for the purpose of enhancing the management 
of such fiscal risks. 
13. 
“GASTPE” means the Borrower’s assistance program for students and teachers 
in private education. 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
15. 
“K to 12 Program” means the Borrower’s basic education program which aims to 
universalize kindergarten and add two more years to the basic education cycle by 
the Borrower’s School Year 2016-2017. 
16. 
“Large Taxpayer Service” means the Borrower’s scheme for optimizing tax 
collection from the largest tax payers within the jurisdiction of its tax collection 
agencies. 
13 
 
17. 
“LGUs” means Local Government Units, political subdivisions of the Borrower 
at the provincial, city, municipal or barangay level, and “LGU” means any one of 
such LGUs. 
18. 
“LTS Rationalization Plan” means the Borrower’s plan adopted pursuant to its 
Executive Order No. 366 for the purpose of rationalizing the Large Taxpayer 
Service. 
19. 
“National Household Targeting System” means the data management system 
adopted by the Borrower to gather data with respect to poor households as 
reference for identifying potential beneficiaries for social services. 
20. 
“Near Poor” means physical persons ordinarily resident on the Borrower’s 
territory whose consumption is above the poverty line, but below the 40th 
percentile of the Borrower’s population. 
21. 
NEDA” means National Economic and Development Authority, an independent 
cabinet-level agency of the Borrower responsible for economic development and 
planning, as reorganized by Executive Order No. 230 issued by the Borrower’s 
President on July 22, 1987, and any successor thereto. 
22. 
“Boar
d Resolution No. 1479” means the resolution passed by the Board of Directors 
of PhilHealth providing, among other things, for: (i) a health insurance scheme 
with premiums shared between the Borrower, LGUs and individuals,          (ii) 
automatic availment of health insurance; and (iii) outpatient packages and other 
benefits available through the scheme, such resolution by its terms to remain 
under implementation until such time as the National Household Targeting 
System is further developed to more accurately target the Near Poor. 
23. 
“PhilHealth” means the Borrower’s National Health Insurance Corporation, an 
agency of DOH established under Republic Act 7875, to ensure adequate 
financial access of every citizen of the Borrower to quality health care services. 
24. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 16, 2011 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
25. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
14 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two (2) years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
15 
 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  
 
