 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7993-AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Essential Public Health Functions and Programs II Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7993-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement as of the Signature Date between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and sixty one million 
Dollars ($461,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MSN, with the assistance of 
MEFP and the Participating Provinces, all in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any Participating Province shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under its Framework Agreement and/or any of its Annual 
Performance Agreements, and the Borrower shall have failed to exercise 
its remedies under such Agreements, in which case the Bank may only 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred for Part 
2.A of the Project as payments to the relevant Participating Province(s). 
 
(b) 
Any Subproject Implementing Entity shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under its Subproject Agreement, and the Borrower shall 
have failed to exercise its remedies under such Subproject Agreement, in 
which case the Bank may suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for Eligible 
Expenditures incurred in respect of the pertinent Subproject. 
 
(c) 
That PROFE Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the implementation, objectives and results of Part 
2.B of the Project, in which case the Bank may only suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for expenditures incurred for Part 2.B of the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The events specified in Section 4.01 (a) and/or 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement occur for all Participating Provinces and/or Subproject 
Implementing Entities and is continuing for a period of 60 days after 
notice of the event for the last of the affected Participating Provinces 
and/or Subproject Implementing Entities has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on June 20, 2012.  
- 4 - 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires 
Argentina 
 
Cable:  
 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA 121942-AR 
 
(5411) 43498815 
Baires 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 5 - 
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Bank on April 11, 2011, and on 
behalf of the Borrower on April 11, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
By /s/ Amado Boudou 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Penelope J. Brook  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the stewardship role of the 
Borrower’s federal public health system, through the strengthening of Essential Public 
Health Functions; and (b) increase the coverage and clinical governance of the Priority 
Public Health Programs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Strengthening of MSN’s and Provincial Ministries’ Stewardship Capacities 
 
and Improve the Public Health Infrastructure of the Priority Public Health 
 
Programs  
 
A. 
Strengthening stewardship in public health of the MSN and MSPs through, inter 
alia: 
 
(i) 
reengineering the MSN to better address NCDs through: (a) the provision 
of technical assistance to MSN’s national planning unit, NCD 
Directorates and COFESA support; and (b) the provision of management 
training for MSN officers working with one or more Priority Public 
Health Programs; 
 
(ii) 
increasing the capacity of MSN and MSPs in the management of 
essential public health functions and programs through, inter alia: (a) the 
provision of technical assistance; (b) the carrying out of related research 
studies; (c) the design and development of social communication and 
health promotion materials aimed at reducing selected risk factors; (d) 
the development of management and information systems, and provision 
of technical equipment; and (e) the carrying out of training through 
workshops and development of technological platforms; and 
 
(iii) 
promoting innovations in health promotion to reduce risk factors 
through: (a) provision of technical assistance for the implementation of 
two pilot programs in the Pilot Provinces to promote the integration of 
health promotion and NCD prevention activities, and better equip health 
care chains and networks to address NCDs; and (b) the carrying out of 
Subprojects related to health promotion, epidemiological research and 
the prevention of STDs and HIV/AIDS.  
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
B. 
Modernizing the infrastructure of the Borrower’s public health infrastructure 
system through, inter alia: (i) 
provision 
of 
support 
for 
epidemiologic 
surveillance of chronic diseases at the national and provincial levels, through 
inter alia, the carrying out of national and provincial surveys, the development of 
chronic disease registers, and the carrying out of training and studies for 
epidemiological officers; (ii) the expansion of the federal public health laboratory 
system to better survey chronic and infectious diseases; (iii) the refurbishment of 
about six provincial or regional blood banks, and the support needed to reduce 
the number of existing blood banks from about 200 to 50 and improve efficiency; 
(iv) the rehabilitation of provincial cold chain chambers for the EPI Program; (v) 
the rehabilitation of ANMAT’s food laboratory; and (vi) the modernization and 
installation of supply-monitoring systems at the national, provincial, and health 
facility levels, including the provision of strategic health supplies. 
 
Part 2: Improve Results at the Provincial Level in Priority Public Health Programs 
 
A. 
Provision of PHA Eligible Operational Costs to support the implementation of 
PHAs consisting of, inter alia: (i) public health surveillance activities, and other 
epidemiological technical systems; (ii) disease control activities; (iii) monitoring 
of compliance with national and provincial norms and standards including 
training and supervisory activities to improve public health quality; (iv) health 
promotion, communication, education and social participation activities with an 
emphasis on healthy lifestyles; (v) local distribution of key medical supplies for 
public health programs; and (vi) regulatory activities carried out by the MSPs.  
 
B. 
Improving the efficiency and performance of PROFE through, inter alia: (i) the 
financing of actuarial costs in the form of Capita Payments for each Eligible 
Enrolled Beneficiary, for the provision of benefits to the most vulnerable 
populations for high-cost low-incidence conditions and disabilities; (ii) planning 
the budget of Capita Payments based on actuarial costs for each Enrolled Eligible 
Beneficiary; (iii) modernization of PROFE’s beneficiary administration roster 
through its linkage with the health care information system; (iv) the design and 
implementation of optimization mechanisms to purchase health care services for 
diseases of high-cost and low-incidence and other disabilities; (v) the 
introduction of a clinical governance system in PROFE, including the evaluation 
of a new payment mechanism per patient of high-cost and low-incidence 
diseases; and (vi) the design and implementation of standardized health 
promotion and prevention services for PROFE’s beneficiaries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
Part 3: Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Support overall Project coordination and supervision and strengthen effectiveness and 
quality of Project operation through:  
A. 
the financing of incremental operating costs of the Coordination Unit, the 
UFI-S and Participating Provinces; and 
 
B. 
(i) the financing of the external technical verifications and audits referred 
to in Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the 
development and implementation of Project monitoring and evaluation 
systems for the Project. 
- 9 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN: 
 
(a) 
maintain during the execution of the Project, within MSN, a project 
coordination unit (CU) and an international health financing unit (UFI-S) 
to manage Project implementation on behalf of MSN, all with functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a 
coordinator, 
technical 
experts 
(including 
management-for-results 
specialized staff) and other personnel in number and with qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
cause the Participating Provinces, through the Framework Agreements, 
to maintain during the execution of the Project, within the respective 
MSPs, technical staff in number and with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank.  
 
B. 
Operational Manual and Operative Guidelines  
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall, through MSN, carry out, and/or cause to be carried, the Project in 
accordance with an operational manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to 
the Bank, containing, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of 
the CU, the UFI-S and the MSPs responsible for the coordination, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for PHA implementation, the 
PHA Eligible Operational Costs and the system to monitor compliance of 
the PHA Performance Indicators; 
 
(c) 
further procedures to carry out the pilot activities under Part 1.A (iii) (a) 
of the Project; 
 
(d) 
the procedures for the procurement of goods, works and services, as well 
as for financial management and audits of the Project, including positive 
lists, eligibility criteria, environmental and social safeguards procedures, 
- 10 - 
draft model Subproject Agreements and special procedures for the 
carrying out of Subprojects under Part 1.A (iii) (b) of the Project; 
 
(e) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
(including the PHA Performance Indicators); 
 
(f) 
draft models for the Framework Agreements and Annual Performance 
Agreements, which shall include, inter alia, the provisions set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
the flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds, including the 
reimbursement mechanisms of the PHA Eligible Operational Costs; 
 
(h) 
the indicators to measure, monitor, adjust and evaluate the Capita 
Payments, as well as the requirements and operating guidelines 
applicable to Part 2.B of the Project,  including verification and 
disbursement procedures there under (including the PROFE Indicators); 
 
 
 
(i) 
the eligibility criteria for any given Province to become a Pilot Province 
and/or a Participating Province under the Project; 
 
(j) 
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and Indigenous Peoples 
Plans, including criteria to ensure adequate and culturally appropriate 
access by indigenous peoples to the Project; 
 
(k) 
the Environmental Action Plan; and 
 
(l) 
the GAAP. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, establish and thereafter maintain 
operative guidelines (the Provincial Operative Guidelines), satisfactory 
to the Bank, which shall contain those chapters of the Operational 
Manual of direct concern to the Participating Provinces and their role in 
the implementation of the Project. Said operative guidelines shall be an 
annex to the Framework Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through MSN, and each of the Participating Provinces.  
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through 
MSN or otherwise, not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational 
Manual or the Provincial Operative Guidelines, or any provision thereof.  
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and 
those of the Operational Manual or the Provincial Operative Guidelines, 
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
 
- 11 - 
C. 
Implementation Arrangements, Pilot Activities and Subprojects 
 
1. 
For the purposes of implementing Part 1.A (iii) (b) of the Project the Borrower 
shall, through MSN, enter into an agreement (the Subproject Agreement) with 
each of the Subproject Implementing Entities, setting forth the technical, 
financial, administrative, safeguard and fiduciary aspects of the Subprojects to be 
supported under Part 1.A (iii) (b) of the Project, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 
4 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall: (a) exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Subproject Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement or 
any provision thereof. In case of any conflict between the provisions of this 
Agreement and those of the Subproject Agreements, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
As part of the eligibility requirements to become a Pilot Province and/or a 
Participating Province, the Province, as determined by the Bank, shall: (a) have 
prepared and adopted an IPP (prepared and/or updated in accordance with the 
terms of the IPPF and the Operational Manual); and (b) undertake the obligation 
to thereafter implement and/or cause to be implemented said IPP in accordance 
with its terms.   
 
4. 
With respect to the carrying out of any given Subproject under Part 1.A (iii) (b) 
of the Project, and when so determined by the Bank as set forth in the 
Operational Manual, the Subproject Implementing Entity shall: (a) adopt an IPP 
or similar acceptable instrument (prepared and/or updated in accordance with the 
terms of the IPPF and the Operational Manual) for the carrying out of its 
respective Subproject; and (b) undertake the obligation to thereafter implement 
and/or cause to be implemented said IPP or similar acceptable instrument in 
accordance with its terms.   
 
D. 
Implementation Arrangements under Part 2.A of the Project 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, jointly with the Bank and not later 
than 24 months after the Effective Date, carry out a comprehensive 
evaluation of PHAs (considering, inter alia, the technical relevance of 
the list of PHAs, PHA Eligible Operational Costs and performance) and 
adjust them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
 
- 12 - 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of subparagraph (a) above, the 
Borrower may, through MSN, propose to the Bank additional reviews of 
the PHAs, the PHA Eligible Operational Costs earlier or later than as set 
forth in such subparagraph, and after such reviews adjust them as 
necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of implementing the Project the Borrower shall, through MSN: 
 
(a) 
enter into an agreement (the Framework Agreement) with each 
Participating 
Province, 
setting 
forth 
the 
technical, 
financial, 
administrative, safeguard and fiduciary aspects of the national and 
provincial participation in the implementation of the Project, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, 
those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
every year, starting immediately after the Effective Date for the first year 
of the Project, and on March 31 thereafter, enter into a performance 
agreement (the Annual Performance Agreement) with each Participating 
Province, setting forth: (i) the PHAs; (ii) the maximum amount to be 
made available to the pertinent Participating Province under the Project; 
(iii) the PHA Eligible Operational Costs; (iv) the work programs and 
resource requirements for the implementation of the PHAs and IPPs 
when applicable; and (v) activities of the IPPs when applicable, all under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Framework 
Agreement and each Annual Performance Agreement in such a manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or 
fail to enforce any Framework Agreement and/or any Annual 
Performance Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, make available the PHA Eligible Operational 
Costs to a Participating Province, only after said Participating Province has 
fulfilled the requirements set forth in this Agreement and the Operational Manual 
in order to become a Participating Province. The provision of such PHA Eligible 
Operational Costs shall be made, inter alia, under the following terms and 
conditions: (a) the maximum amount to be made available annually to each 
Participating Province shall be set forth in the respective Annual Performance 
Agreement and will be calculated in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual; (b) the Participating Province shall comply with the PHA 
Performance Indicators set forth in the respective Framework Agreement and 
Annual Performance Agreement, and inform MSN of the compliance thereof; (c) 
no amounts of PHA Eligible Operating Costs shall be made available by MSN 
- 13 - 
after 24 months from the Effective Date to a Participating Province unless the 
MSN has verified, based on the report provided by the Technical Auditor (as 
referred to in Section I.E.1 (a) of this Schedule), that the PHA Performance 
Indicators set forth for the first 24 months of Project implementation have been 
met by such Participating Province.  
 
4. 
(a) The Bank may finance PHA Eligible Operating Costs up to 50% of the cost of 
PHAs (as reflected in Category (5)) for the first 24 months counted from the 
Effective Date. In the event that the relevant Participating Province fails to 
comply with any of the agreed PHA Performance Indicators during the first 24 
months counted from the Effective Date, said financing percentage will continue 
to apply throughout Project implementation or until full compliance with the 
PHA Performance Indicators is achieved; and (b) in the event of full compliance 
with the agreed set of PHA Performance Indicators after the second year of 
implementation, the Bank may, thereafter, finance PHA Eligible Operating Costs 
up to 80% of the cost of PHAs (as reflected in Category (5)). 
 
5. 
For the purposes of implementing Part 2.A of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through MSN, monitor the implementation of the PHAs and compliance with the 
PHA Performance Indicators, on a periodic basis, all under terms acceptable to 
the Bank.  
 
E. 
Other Arrangements and Audits under the Project 
 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through MSN, 
appoint under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter maintain 
during the execution of the Project, an independent auditing firm with 
qualifications and terms of contracting satisfactory to the Bank (the Technical 
Auditor) responsible for: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
auditing the verification procedure referred to in Section I.D.3 
(c) of this Schedule, inter alia, on: (A) the PHA Performance 
Indicators; (B) the delivery of PHAs based on MSN’s and 
Participating Provinces’ registries; and (C) the continuous 
relevance of PHA Eligible Operational Costs (at least on an 
annual basis), all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and  
 
(ii) 
performing an audit, not later than sixty (60) days: (A) after the 
end of each calendar quarter for paragraph (i) (B) herein; and (B) 
after the end of each calendar year of Project implementation for 
paragraphs (i) (A) and (i) (C) herein, and immediately thereafter 
issue an opinion and prepare a report (as defined in the 
Operational Manual) on the verifications carried out under 
paragraph (a) (i) herein, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
 
- 14 - 
(b) 
not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar quarter 
during Project implementation (starting with the calendar quarter in 
which the Effective Date falls): (i) carry out the audit referred to in 
Section IV.A.5 of this Schedule; and (ii) issue an opinion and prepare a 
report (as defined in the Operational Manual and in the additional 
instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule), acceptable to 
the Bank, on the veracity of enrollment of Eligible Beneficiaries under 
PROFE, the number of Enrolled Beneficiaries during the pertinent 
calendar quarter, as well as the status of compliance with the PROFE 
Indicators.  
 
2. 
For purposes of implementing Part 2.B of the Project, the Borrower shall enact, 
through MSN, a ministerial resolution (the “PROFE Ministerial Resolution”) 
setting forth the technical, financial, administrative, safeguard and fiduciary 
roles, within MSN, with regard to the implementation of the Project, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.  
 
F. 
Other Undertakings 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN: 
 
(a) 
not later than March 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting on the year 2011, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual 
implementation plan, each said plan to include, inter alia: (i) the Project 
activities to be carried out by the Borrower, through MSN, during the 
calendar year following the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the 
procurement plan for each said calendar year; and 
 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said annual implementation plan, approved by 
the Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
 
2. 
At all times throughout Project implementation, and without limitation to the 
provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall 
maintain in its annual national budget an amount of financing for PROFE which 
is at least equivalent in real terms to the amount assigned thereto in the 
Borrower’s national budget for fiscal year 2010. 
 
G. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the GAAP and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester (starting with the calendar semester in which the Effective Date falls), 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than two months after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MSN (and through MEFP for Part 2.B of the Project) 
shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MSN, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, not later than January 31, 2011, create and 
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, a specific national budget 
line entry in its annual budget in order to record all expenditures of the Project. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Works.   All goods, Non-Consultant 
Services and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
 
 
- 16 - 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultant Services and 
 
Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, Non-Consultant Services and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding which may, 
at the Borrower’s option be subject to Domestic Preference (which would be 
applicable to the procurement of goods only under International Competitive 
Bidding), as per paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultant Services and 
Works.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, Non-
Consultant Services and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding  
(b) Shopping  
(c) Direct Contracting  
(d) Community Participation under paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement 
Guidelines to be utilized for Subprojects  
 
3. 
The following provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods, works and 
services (including consulting services): 
 
(a) 
Foreign and local service providers, consultants and suppliers shall not 
be required: (i) to register; or (ii) to establish residence in Argentina or in 
a Province; or (iii) enter into association with other national or 
international bidders as a condition for submitting bids or proposals. 
 
(b) 
In works, the price adjustment mechanism agreed upon between the 
Bank and the Borrower for National Competitive Bidding will apply.  
 
- 17 - 
(c) 
Invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid opening, requests 
for expressions of interest, and contract award reports of all goods, works 
and services, including consultants, shall be published in the web page of 
ONC, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be 
counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the 
bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid opening. 
 
(d) 
Witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for a bid evaluation or 
contract award.  
 
(e) 
Bidders and consultants shall not be allowed to review or make copies of 
others bidders’ bids or consultants’ proposals, as the case may be. 
 
(f) 
The Borrower shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible 
Procurement Plans Execution System with the information contained in 
the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days after such plan has been 
approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least 
biannually or as required to reflect the actual Project implementation 
needs and progress and supply the Bank’s Procurement Plans Execution 
System with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan 
immediately thereafter. 
 
(g) 
A two-envelope system for procurement will not be used for 
procurement of goods, Non-Consultant Services and works. 
 
(h) 
For contracts for goods, works and services, other than consulting 
services, “the most convenient” bid shall be the one that has been 
determined to be substantially responsive and has been determined to be 
the lowest evaluated bid, provided that further the bidder is determined to 
be qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily. 
 
(i) 
The lowest evaluated bidder shall not be required to reduce its bid as a 
condition of contract award. 
 
(j) 
National Competitive Bidding procedures would be modified in order to 
make them identical to International Competitive Bidding procedures, 
exception made of the following features: (i) advertisement may be 
limited to the national press or official gazette, and the ONC website; (ii) 
the Borrower’s currency may be used for the purposes of bidding and 
payment; (iii) the bidding period (from the date of publication of the 
invitation to bid or the date that the documents are available, whichever 
is later, to the date of bid opening) may be reduced to 30 days; and (iv) 
the INCOTERM clause Delivery Duty Paid (DDP) may be used for the 
procurement of goods. 
 
- 18 - 
(k) 
Consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities. 
 
(l) 
In information technology procurement, the Borrower’s criterion for 
determining the eligibility of computer manufacturers established in 
ETAP will not apply.  
 
(m) 
Compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any 
given good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for 
contract award. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Consultant’s Qualifications 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Single Source 
(d) Fixed-Budget Selection 
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
- 19 - 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed 
 
(1) Works, goods and 
 
consultants’ services under 
 
Part 1. B (ii), (iii), (iv) and 
 
(v) of the Project  
 
 
48,000,000 
80% 
 
(2) Eligible Medical Supplies 
 
50,000,000 
100% until disbursements 
under this Category have 
reached an aggregate 
amount of $10,000,000; 
70% until disbursements 
under this Category have 
reached an aggregate 
amount of $30,000,000; 
and 50% thereafter 
 
(3) Subprojects   
 
 
2,000,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, consultants’ 
 
services, Non-Consultant 
 
Services and Training 
 
under the Project, 
 
excluding for Categories 
 
(2),  (3), (5) and (6) 
 
 
 
35,887,000 
 
75% 
(5) Public Health Activities 
 
 
 
42,010,500 
100%  of PHA Eligible 
Operational Costs paid by 
MSN to a Participating 
Province as per the terms of 
the respective Framework 
Agreement 
 
- 20 - 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed 
 
(6) Capita Payments under 
 
Part 2.B (i) of the Project 
 
280,000,000 
100%, as further specified 
in Section IV.A.3 of this 
Schedule 
(7) Project Operating Costs  
 
 
1,950,000 
 
75% 
(8) Front-end Fee 
 
1,152,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(9) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
 
0 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
461,000,000 
 
 
(a) 
the term “Project Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of 
recurrent expenditures of MSN and MSPs (including the CU) in Project 
implementation (excluding PHAs) such as consumable items, utilities 
and supplies, travel costs for supervision in the field, which would not 
have been incurred absent the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services and for PHAs) incurred by MSN to finance 
reasonable transportation costs and per diem of trainees and trainers (if 
applicable), course registration fees, and rental of training facilities, 
materials and equipment under the Project. 
 
3. 
The Capita Payment shall be managed pursuant to agreed guidelines, as set forth 
below and further detailed in the Operational Manual and, as applicable, linked to 
satisfactory completion of the PROFE Indicators: 
(a)  
during the first ten months after the Effective Date, Loan proceeds under 
Category (6) shall finance 100% of the Capita Payment and disburse said 
amount for each Eligible Enrolled Beneficiary as certified by the Bank, 
up to a ceiling of $140,000,000; 
 
(b)  
for the following fourteen months after the period referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, Loan proceeds under Category (6) shall finance 
100% of the Capita Payment, and disburse said amount, as follows: (i) 
- 21 - 
50% for each Eligible Enrolled Beneficiary as certified by the Technical 
Auditor (as referred to in Section I.E.1 (b) of this Schedule); and (ii) the 
remaining 50% upon the verification of the Borrower’s compliance with 
the Set #1 of PROFE Indicators, as set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and the Operational Manual, all up to a cumulative ceiling of 
$196,000,000 under Category (6);  
 
(c)  
for the following twelve months after the period referred to in paragraph 
(b) above, Loan proceeds under Category (6) shall finance 100% of the 
Capita Payment, and disburse said amount as follows: (i) 50% for each 
Eligible Enrolled Beneficiary as certified by the Technical Auditor (as 
referred to in Section I.E.1 (b) of this Schedule); and (ii) the remaining 
50% upon the verification of the Borrower’s compliance with Set #2 of 
PROFE Indicators, as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the 
Operational Manual, all up to a cumulative ceiling of $250,600,000 
under Category (6); 
 
(d)  
for the following twelve months after the period referred to in paragraph 
(c) above, Loan proceeds under Category (6) shall finance 100% of the 
Capita Payment and disburse said amount as follows: (i) 20% for each 
Eligible Enrolled Beneficiary as certified by the Technical Auditor (as 
referred to in Section I.E.1 (b) of this Schedule); and (ii) the remaining 
80% upon the verification of the Borrower’s compliance with the Set #3 
of PROFE Indicators, as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and 
the Operational Manual; and 
 
(e) 
in case of partial compliance with the PROFE Indicators, Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement and the Operational Manual shall set forth in detail the 
procedural rules, and the respective deductions, if applicable, to the 
percentages established in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) above. 
 
4. 
The first Loan withdrawal application under Category (6) shall be presented to 
the Bank by the Borrower as an advance and on the basis of a report prepared by 
MSN including a forecast of the number of Enrolled Eligible Beneficiaries for 
the next eight months. No disbursement under Category (6) shall take place until 
the Bank has validated the relevant PROFE beneficiaries’ database. 
 
5. 
For the purposes of the certification procedure referred to in paragraph 3 of this 
Section, the Borrower, through MSN, shall:  (a) have the report referred to in said 
paragraph technically audited as referred to in Section I.E.1 (b) of this Schedule; 
and (b) use as support documentation said audited reports, all in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
 
- 22 - 
6. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall calculate and establish the Capita Payment in 
accordance with the methodologies and provisions included in the original 
calculation defined under terms of reference approved by the Bank.  Each such 
calculation of the Capita Payment shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower and shall be furnished to the Bank for each such period not later than 
one month after the end of such period.  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $92,200,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date but on or after 
January 1, 2010 (but in no case more than one year prior to the Signature 
Date) for Eligible Expenditures for Category (6), if the pertinent 
obligations set forth in this Agreement, as applicable to each Eligible 
Expenditure have been complied with; and 
 
(b)  
under Category (5) unless the Technical Auditor has been employed in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
- 23 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2018  
 
through September 15, 2036 
 
2.56% 
On March 15, 2037 
2.72% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
 
- 24 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 25 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
I. 
Terms and conditions of Framework Agreements 
 
 
Each Framework Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions: 
 
A. 
The right of the Borrower, through MSN, to take remedial actions 
against the Participating Province in case the Participating Province shall 
have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Framework 
Agreement and/or under any Annual Performance Agreement (which 
actions shall previously be agreed with the Bank). 
  
B. 
The obligation of the Participating Province: 
(i) 
to assist the Borrower in the implementation of the Project in 
accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
to ensure that  the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the GAAP (as applicable) and the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines (by for example, allowing Bank inspection and audit 
rights under paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines); 
 
(iii) 
if applicable as determined by the Bank, to comply with the 
provisions of the Environmental Action Plan and the IPPF and 
prepare, adopt and undertake the obligation of carrying out the 
pertinent IPPs, as applicable, in accordance with their terms; 
 
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
enforce the Framework Agreement and/or any Annual 
Performance Agreement, or any provision thereof unless 
previously agreed by the Bank; and 
 
(v) 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower, 
through MSN, to comply with its obligations referred to in this 
Agreement, as applicable. 
  
C. 
The Provincial Operative Guidelines shall be observed by the 
Participating Provinces and as such shall be incorporated by reference to 
the Framework Agreements (and attached as an annex thereto). 
 
 
 
 
- 26 - 
D. 
For Pilot Provinces, the Framework Agreements shall include, in 
addition to the obligations for Participating Provinces set forth in 
Sections B and C of this Schedule, the obligation of the Pilot Province: 
 
(a) 
to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the activities under 
Part 1.A (iii) (a) of the Project in accordance with the pertinent 
provisions of this Agreement, including technical, financial, 
administrative, environmental, social and fiduciary standards 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to its 
respective pilot activity, and enable the Borrower and the Bank 
to review the documents related to said activity under the 
Project. 
 
II. 
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Agreements 
 
Each Subproject Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions: 
 
A. 
The right of the Borrower, through MSN, to take remedial actions 
against the Subproject Implementing Entity (as the case may be) in case 
the Subproject Implementing Entity shall have failed to comply with any 
of its obligations under the Subproject Agreement (which actions shall 
previously be agreed with the Bank). 
 
B. 
If applicable as determined by the Bank, to comply, and ensure that the 
Subproject Implementing Entity complies with the provisions of the 
Environmental Action Plan, the IPPF and the pertinent IPPs or similar 
acceptable instrument, as well as with the provisions of the GAAP and 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
 
C. 
The obligation of the Subproject Implementing Entity: 
 
(a) 
to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the pertinent 
Subproject in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this 
Agreement, including technical, financial, administrative, 
environmental and fiduciary standards acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(b) 
if applicable as determined by the Bank, to comply with the 
provisions of the Environmental Action Plan, the IPPF and adopt 
and undertake the obligation of carrying out the pertinent IPPs or 
similar acceptable instruments, as applicable, in accordance with 
their terms; 
 
- 27 - 
(c) 
to ensure that the pertinent Subproject is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the GAAP (as applicable to 
the Subproject) and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by for 
example, allowing Bank inspection and audit rights under 
paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines); 
 
(d) 
to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to its 
respective Subproject, and enable the Borrower and the Bank to 
review the documents related to said Subproject under the 
Project; 
 
(e) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
enforce the Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof 
unless previously agreed by the Bank; and 
  
(f) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, 
through MSN, to comply with its obligations referred to in this 
Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent 
Subproject. 
- 28 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
PROFE Indicators 
 
 
The following table sets forth the PROFE Indicators under Part 2.B of the 
Project:  
 
SET 
PROFE Indicators 
Value 
# 1 
 
(i) PROFE clinical governance program put in place, and 
certified by the technical audit. 
(ii) Regulation center for PROFE’s patients put in place. 
(iii) Actuarial study for capitas completed.  
(iv) Letter of rights of explicit guarantees in health prevention 
and health promotion for mothers with more than seven 
children approved by COFESA.  
(v) New payment mechanisms from PROFE to the Provinces 
are being agreed in COFESA. 
Each PROFE 
Indicator within this 
Set has a value of 
twenty percent 
(20%) of the amount 
set forth in Section 
IV. A. 3 (b) (ii) of 
Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement  
 
 
# 2 
 
(i) New capita and sub-capitas governing PROFE, and 
respective amounts discussed with the MEFP.  
(ii) At least 8,000 women with more than seven children have 
signed a PROFE’s letter of rights. 
(iii) 30 percent of PROFE beneficiaries with chronic renal 
failure enrolled in the waiting list for renal transplant. 
(iv) 40 percent of PROFE beneficiaries with hemophilia 
registered and evaluated by the National Academy of 
Medicine. 
(v) New payment mechanisms from PROFE to the Provinces 
(for example, sub-capitas, diagnosis risk groups, output-based 
payments) are being used in at least two out of 23 Provinces. 
Each PROFE 
Indicator within this 
Set has a value of 
twenty percent 
(20%) of the amount 
set forth in Section 
IV. A. 3 (c) (ii) of 
Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement 
 
# 3 
 
(i) PROFE clinical governance program evaluated as 
satisfactory by an external specialized auditor approved by the 
Bank. 
(ii) 10,000 PROFE female enrollees undertaken at least one 
cytology test, one breast cancer control, two reproductive 
health consultations, and two risk factor controls.  
(iii) At least two technical audits on the clinical effectiveness 
of treatment of diseases of low incidence and higher cost 
undertaken, with at least one year in between. 
(iv) 60 percent of PROFE beneficiaries with chronic renal 
failure enrolled in the waiting list for renal transplant. 
(v) 90 percent of PROFE beneficiaries with hemophilia 
registered and evaluated by the National Academy of 
Medicine. 
Each PROFE 
Indicator within this 
Set has a value of 
twelve point five 
percent (12.5%) of 
the amount set forth 
in Section IV. A. 3 
(d) (ii) of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement 
 
- 29 - 
SET 
PROFE Indicators 
Value 
(vi) New payment mechanisms from PROFE to the Provinces 
(for example, sub-capitas, diagnosis risk groups, output-based 
payments) are being used in at least four out of 23 Provinces. 
 (vii) Regulation center for PROFE’s patients regulates at least 
five pathologies with a satisfactory external specialized 
auditor (certification system agreed with the Bank). 
(viii) MEFP has increased the base-line amount allocated to 
PROFE (amount calculated in USD) during at least one of the 
four years.   
 
- 30 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
3. 
“ANMAT” means Administración Nacional de Medicamentos, Alimentos y 
Tecnología Médica the Borrower’s National Food, Drug, and Medical 
Technology Administration, responsible for the registration, control, pricing, and 
surveillance of medicines, cosmetics, medical products, dietary supplements, 
additives, disinfectants, and household insecticides to ensure the quality, safety 
and efficacy of such marketed products. 
 
4. 
“Annual Performance Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section I.D.2 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Capita Payment” means the insurance premium annual financial transfers made 
by the Borrower, through MEFP, to PROFE, for eligible health coverage of each 
Enrolled Eligible Beneficiary under Part 2.B of the Project, which transfers are 
calculated based on the cost of the average number of health care services 
provided to an Enrolled Eligible Beneficiary, as further detailed in this 
Agreement and in the Operational Manual. 
 
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“COFESA” means Consejo Federal de Salud, the Borrower’s Federal Health 
Council, which acts as a corporate governance body composed of the National 
and all Provincial Ministers of Health with the purpose of stewarding the health 
sector and its main strategies and policies. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
9. 
“Coordination Unit” or “CU” means MSN’s unit referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
10. 
“DOT” means Directly Observed Therapy for the treatment of tuberculosis. 
 
- 31 - 
11. 
“Eligible Beneficiary” means any of the following: (i) a woman with seven 
children or more; (ii) a disabled person; or (iii) a person over 70 years of age, or 
any of their dependents, which receives a non-contributory pension.   
 
12. 
“Eligible Medical Supplies” means any medical supply listed in the Operational 
Manual as acceptable, which excludes pesticides and anti-retrovirals. 
 
13. 
“Enrolled Eligible Beneficiary” means an Eligible Beneficiary that is currently 
enrolled in PROFE.  
 
14. 
“Environmental Action Plan” means the Borrower’s plan dated August 2010, 
acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on September 
2010, for health care waste management, pest management procedures, and 
screening and carrying out of works set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
15. 
“EPI Program” means the Borrower’s Expanded Immunization Program detailed 
in article 3 of the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 828/2006, dated July 10, 
2006, which program’s objective is to decrease the morbi-mortality of the 
preventable diseases through sustained vaccination. 
 
16. 
“Essential Public Health Functions” means any of the following eleven functions 
to be carried out under the Project: monitoring and evaluation, surveillance and 
disease control, health promotion, social participation, regulation, policy-making, 
equity promotion, human resource development, quality assurance and public 
health research and disaster prevention. 
 
17. 
“Essential Public Health Functions and Programs Project” means the project 
financed in part by the Bank Loan No. 7412-AR in accordance with terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower 
and the Bank dated July 12, 2007. 
 
18. 
“ETAP” means the set of technical standards applicable to public sector 
procurement of information technology, which is updated from time to time by 
the Borrower’s Information Technology Office. 
 
19. 
“GAAP” means Governance and Accountability Action Plan, the Borrower’s 
plan dated November 10, 2010, as agreed with the Bank, and included in the 
Operational Manual, setting forth measures and actions to be taken during 
implementation of the Project with respect to mitigation of corruption, including 
collusion, forgery and fraud, handling of complaints, sanctions and remedies. 
 
20. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
- 32 - 
21. 
“Framework Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.D.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“HIV” means Human Immunodeficiency Virus. 
 
23. 
“INCOTERMS” means the universally recognized set of definitions of 
international commercial terms developed by the International Chamber of 
Commerce (ICC) in Paris, France. 
 
24. 
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means: (a) any of the plans, acceptable to the 
Bank, adopted by the pertinent Pilot Province and/or Participating Province 
and/or a Subproject Implementing Entity when applicable as set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and/or (b) any of the IPPs, acceptable to the Bank, adopted 
by any of the Participating Provinces which did not participate under the 
Essential Public Health and Functions Programs Project, all prepared and to be 
carried out following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning 
Framework. 
 
25. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the Borrower’s 
framework dated July 2010, acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to 
the public on September 2010, defining the guidelines and procedures for 
managing the impacts of the Project on indigenous peoples, as well as for the 
preparation and/or updating any Indigenous Peoples Plan (as the case may be). 
 
26. 
“ISO” means International Organization for Standardization, an international-
standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national 
standards organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and 
commercial standards for products. 
 
27. 
“MEFP” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Economy and Public Finance. 
 
28. 
“MSN” means Ministerio de Salud de la Nación, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Health. 
 
29. 
“MSP” means Ministerio de Salud Provincial (or its equivalent in each 
Participating Province), each of the Borrower’s Participating Provinces’ 
Ministries of Health. 
 
30. 
“NCD” means Non-Communicable Diseases which are not infectious, but rather 
linked to certain risk factors such as a person’s lifestyle, genetics, or 
environment, all of which are known to increase the likelihood of these types of 
diseases. 
 
- 33 - 
31. 
“NCD Directorate” means any of MSN’s directorates, organized within the 
Secretariat of Health Promotion and Programs, functionally in charge of dealing 
with NCDs and risk factors. 
 
32. 
“Non-Consultant Services” means printing services and other services of non-
intellectual and non-advisory nature that can be procured on the basis of 
performance of measurable physical outputs. 
 
33. 
“ONC” means Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones, the Borrower’s National 
Contracting Office operating under the Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros, the 
Borrower’s Chief of Cabinet of Ministers Office. 
 
34. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement and approved by the Bank on October 25, 2010. 
 
35. 
“Participating Province” means any Province (including the Pilot Provinces) or 
the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires (Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires) that 
has fulfilled the requirements of this Agreement and the Operational Manual to 
be eligible to participate and receive funds from the Project. 
 
36. 
“PHA” or “Public Health Activity” means any public health activity aimed at 
improving and expanding the delivery of the Priority Public Health Programs and 
Essential Public Health Functions, which is eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual. 
 
37. 
“PHA Eligible Operational Cost” means an operating cost of a PHA eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan aggregated on a unit cost basis in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, as such operating cost 
may be modified from time to time with the agreement with the Bank. 
 
38. 
“PHA Performance Indicators” means any of the following four indicators set 
forth in a Framework Agreement: immunization coverage, disease control as per 
established norms, tuberculosis cases receiving DOTs, and incremental 
membership.  
 
39. 
“Pilot Provinces” means the Borrower’s Provinces of Tucumán and Misiones, 
and/or any other Provinces that the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time. 
 
40. 
“Priority Public Health Program” means any of the following seven public health 
programs to be carried out under Part 2.A of the Project: Non-communicable 
diseases or NCDs, vaccine-preventable diseases, vector-borne diseases, 
HIV/AIDS/STI, safe blood supply, PROFE and tuberculosis, and risk factors 
- 34 - 
obesity/malnutrition, sedentary lifestyle, and tobacco and alcohol consumption, 
and any other program as the Bank may agree. 
 
41. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
42. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 25, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
43. 
“Procurement Plans Execution System” or “SEPA” means the Bank’s 
information system for dissemination and monitoring of the procurement 
processes of Bank-financed projects in Argentina (http: // wbqa.latinvia.com). 
 
44. 
“PROFE” means Programa Federal de Salud, the Borrower’s Federal Health 
Program, created by the Borrower’s Decree No. 1455/96 of December 12, 1996, 
with the objective of guaranteeing health coverage to non-contributory pension 
beneficiaries and residents throughout the Borrower’s territory. 
 
45. 
“PROFE Indicators” means the set of indicators agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank, with the objective of measuring PROFE’s performance and 
achievements, as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
46. 
“PROFE’s Legislation” means: (a) the Presidential Decree 1606/2002 dated 
August 29, 2002, that transferred the Program to the management of the MSN; 
and (b) the PROFE Ministerial Resolution (as hereinafter defined). 
 
47. 
“PROFE Ministerial Resolution” means MSN’s ministerial resolution referred to 
in Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
48. 
“Province” means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the 
Borrower’s Constitution, and the term “Provinces” means all of said political 
subdivisions. 
 
49. 
“Provincial Operative Guidelines” means the operative guidelines referred to in 
Section I.B.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
50. 
“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and 
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references 
to “the date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions. 
 
51. 
“STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infections. 
 
- 35 - 
52. 
“Subproject” means any public health promotion activity under Part 1.A (iii) (b) 
of the Project, within the criteria set forth to that effect in the Operational 
Manual, to be carried out by a Subproject Implementing Entity. 
 
53. 
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
54. 
“Subproject Implementing Entity” means any of the following legally constituted 
entities in charge of carrying out a given Subproject: (a) a Borrower’s 
municipality; (b) an academic institution; or (c) a non-governmental organization 
or other legally constituted civil society organization, all in accordance with the 
provisions set forth to this effect in the Operational Manual. 
 
55. 
“Technical Auditor” means the independent technical auditor referred to in 
Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
56. 
“UFI-S” means MSN’s unit referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
- 36 - 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
 
 
