CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 79830-RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Financial Education and Financial Literacy Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 14, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 79830-RU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 14, 2011, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty five million Dollars ($25,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
-2- 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOF, with the assistance of the PIU, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. Additionally, the 
following will provide assistance in implementing the following parts of the Project: with 
respect to: (a) Parts 2 and 3, MoEDU; (b) Part 4, CPS; and (c) Part 2(c), administrations 
of the Pilot Regions and Other Regions in accordance with Implementation Agreements 
to be signed between said administrations, MOF and the PIU.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The PIU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Agency 
Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
The Agency Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or the PIU to carry out the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely: any event 
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower. 
 
-3- 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
MOF and the PIU have adopted the Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to 
the Bank; and 
(b) 
the Agency Agreement has been entered into between MOF and the PIU in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3(a) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Agency 
Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and the PIU and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and the PIU in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance or authorized Deputy Minister 
of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097 Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
112008  
 
 
(7-495) 925-0889 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-4- 
AGREED at Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By /s/ Alexey Kudrin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Philippe H. Le Houerou 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the financial literacy of Russian citizens 
(especially, among the school-age and college students and active and potential low- and middle-
income users of financial services); and (ii) to strengthen the foundation for improving consumer 
protection in financial services.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1. 
Development of financial literacy strategy, and financial literacy and consumer 
protection monitoring and evaluation 
 
(a) 
Provision of support for implementation of the Project by the Inter-agency Project 
Committee and Expert Board, inter alia, through provision of goods, consultants’ 
services and training.  
(b) 
Development and dissemination of a National Financial Literacy Improvement Strategy 
through, inter alia, preparation of background analytical reports on financial literacy and 
consumer protection programs, public discussions, and expert reviews. 
(c) 
Provision of technical support in consumer protection and financial literacy through, inter 
alia,
review of consumer protection and financial services legislation and 
recommendations for improvements, and development of methodological and 
informational materials. 
(d) 
Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system through, inter alia, regular carrying 
out of: (i) national financial literacy surveys; (ii) impact evaluation surveys for specific 
financial literacy, financial education, and consumer protection programs; and 
(iii) consumer finance surveys. 
(e) 
Provision of advisory and technical support for implementation of the Project by MOF 
and the PIU, inter alia, through provision of consultants’ services.   
Part 2.  
Financial literacy capacity building 
 
(a) 
Enhancement, at the federal and regional levels, of the capacity of institutions and 
educators to raise financial literacy by, inter alia, providing training to, and organizing 
workshops and discussion forums for, national groups of experts and for teachers and 
educators. 
(b) 
Establishment, at the national level, of a user-friendly information and education 
financial literacy and consumer protection web portal, which is designed, inter alia, to 
provide information to raise financial literacy and to provide information on protection of 
consumers in the area of financial services. 
(c) 
Carrying out a regional financial literacy development program in Pilot Regions and 
Other Regions, which includes: establishing Regional Centers of Financial Literacy; 
developing and testing regional financial literacy education curricula and materials based, 
-6- 
in part, on programs developed under Part 3(a) of the Project; implementing said 
curricula (including provision of support for delivery and for implementation); training 
relevant institutional representatives and teachers; monitoring and evaluating the 
foregoing activities; and carrying out regional public information campaigns and other 
region-specific capacity building activities for financial literacy.  
(d) 
Provision of support for the preparation of follow-up operations in the areas of financial 
literacy and consumer protection.    
Part 3. 
Development and implementation of education programs and information 
campaigns for improving financial literacy  
(a) 
Development and implementation of education programs for improvement of financial 
literacy, including: developing and testing of teaching and learning curricula and 
supporting materials targeted at school children, college and university students, and 
active and potential low- and middle-income users of financial services; and 
disseminating implementation experiences through conferences and seminars. 
(b) 
Development and implementation of an information campaign for improvement of 
financial literacy, including: defining campaign messages, developing campaign 
information materials and medium, and developing and implementing programs for 
training of journalists. 
(c) 
Carrying out financial literacy Sub-projects through, inter alia, provision of support for 
selected financial literacy initiatives by private and public sectors, non-government 
organizations, non-profit organizations, and professional associations.  
Part 4. 
Strengthening consumer protection in financial services  
Carrying out the following to protect consumers in the financial services area: 
(a) 
Development and implementation of a plan for improving the capacity of the Consumer 
Protection Service for financial consumers protection by, inter alia, analyzing the 
existing regulatory structure for protection of consumers in the financial services market 
and practice and the procedures for handling consumer complaints, studying international 
experience in that area, and developing and implementing recommendations for 
improvement. 
(b) 
Carrying out financial literacy Sub-projects through provision of support for selected 
initiatives that protect consumers in the area of financial services, including initiatives for 
provision of legal advice and information to consumers by the private and public sectors, 
non-government organizations, non-profit organizations, and professional associations.  
(c) 
Provision of support for establishment of a voluntary financial ombudsman and for 
improving independent monitoring of consumer protection.   
-7- 
Part 5. 
Project management 
Provision of support to the PIU for implementation of the Project through financing of Operating 
Costs. 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or establish and maintain, as the case may be, for purposes 
of carrying out the Project, the following until completion of the Project: 
(a) 
The Inter-agency Project Committee (“IAPC”), chaired by the Deputy Minister 
of Finance, responsible for supervision of overall Project implementation and 
providing strategic oversight of the implementation of specific Project activities. 
(b) 
The Project Working Group established within the Ministry of Finance and to be 
responsible for operational aspects of Project management. 
(c) 
The Expert Board to be established and to be responsible for providing strategic 
analytical and expert support to IAPC on financial literacy strategy. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or establish and maintain, as the case may be, for purposes 
of carrying out the Project, the following in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Operations Manual:  
(a) 
One or more Regional Center for Financial Literacy to be established in each 
Pilot Region and in each Other Region for purposes of implementing Part 2(c) of 
the Project.  
(b) 
The PIU responsible for provision of day-to-day Project implementation support 
to MOF, including financial management, disbursement, procurement, fiduciary 
compliance and reporting arrangements.  
3. 
The Borrower, through MOF, shall:  
(a) 
enter into an Agency Agreement with the PIU, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, for provision of day-to-day support for the 
implementation of the Project, which terms and conditions shall include 
compliance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Project Operations 
Manual;  
(b) 
enter into an Implementation Agreement with the PIU and the administration of 
each of the Pilot Regions and Other Regions for the implementation of Part 2(c) 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations 
Manual; and 
-9- 
(c) 
at all times throughout the duration of the Project, cause each other party to the 
Agency Agreement and the Implementation Agreement to perform its respective 
obligations under the applicable agreement.  
4. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
cause the PIU, for purposes of guiding Project implementation, to develop a 
Project Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank setting out, inter alia:
(i) 
financial management policies, requirements and detailed procedures 
consistent with the provisions of paragraph 1, Section II.B of this 
Schedule; 
(ii) 
guidelines and procedures for procurement consistent with the provisions 
of Section III of this Schedule 2;  
(iii) 
with regard to regional financial literacy development programs under 
Part 2(c) of the Project, eligibility criteria, selection, approval and 
implementation procedures; and 
(iv) 
with regard to Sub-projects under Parts 3(c) and 4(b) of the Project, 
eligibility criteria, selection, approval and implementation procedures.  
(b)  
cause MOF, the PIU, and the administrations of the Pilot Regions and Other 
Regions to carry out the Project in a timely manner and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Operations Manual, and to apply and implement the 
actions, criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements therein set forth; and  
(c)  
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived said manual or any 
provisions thereof, except with the prior written approval of the Bank. 
 
B. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project. 
 
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
ensure that sufficient annual allocations be made in the Borrower’s budget for the 
Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption. 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Sub-projects. 
1. 
For purposes of Parts 3(c) and 4(b) of the Project, the Borrower, through the PIU, shall 
ensure:  
-10- 
(a) 
The selection and approval of Sub-projects in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria and selection procedures set forth in the Project Operations Manual.  
(b) 
The conclusion of a Sub-project Contract between the PIU (on behalf of MOF) 
and each Beneficiary (selected in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Operations Manual) for purposes of implementing Part 3(c) or 4(b) of the 
Project, as the case may be, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and 
specified in the Project Operations Manual, which shall include rights to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including:  
(i)  
the right of the PIU to suspend and/or terminate the Sub-project Contract 
upon the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the 
related Sub-project Contract; and  
(ii) 
the undertaking of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower; (B) enable the Borrower and the Bank to 
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents; and (C) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all 
such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing. 
2. 
The Borrower, through the PIU shall exercise its rights under each Sub-project Contract 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the PIU shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-
project Contract or any of its provisions. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months following the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
-11- 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through the 
PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, 
provided that the first and last audit periods may, with the agreement of the Bank, cover a 
period of up to eighteen (18) months. The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Technical Services.  All goods and Technical Services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Technical Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Technical Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and Technical Services. The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
-12- 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule 2 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Agreed procedures set out in the Project Operations Manual for Technical Services  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualification 
(b) Quality-based Selection 
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(d) Least Cost Selection 
(e) Single-source Selection 
(f) Individual Consultant 
3. 
Short lists. Short lists for assignments to be procured under the provisions of this Section 
III.C may:  
(a) 
comprise of both qualified government-owned universities, research centers and 
other educational institutions that satisfy the requirements of paragraph 1.11(c) of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and private enterprises if there are inadequate number 
of qualified private sector enterprises for the shortlist; or  
(b) 
where in response to the Borrower's request for expressions of interest no 
suitably qualified private sector consultant has expressed interest, consist entirely 
of qualified government-owned universities, research centers and other 
educational institutions that satisfy the requirements of paragraph 1.11(c) of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
-13- 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  The 
Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain one or more designated 
accounts in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.04(a) of the General Conditions.   
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
 Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(1) Goods, Technical Services, 
consultants’ services, and Sub-
project Financing 
 
22,000,000 
20% 
(2) Operating Costs 
3,000,000 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
25,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
-14- 
ANNEX 
to  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
Contracts for goods for which Part B of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement 
allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations of the Borrower. In order to 
assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be modified as set forth 
in the following paragraphs. 
 
Eligibility
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall be 
placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those 
imposed by primary boycotts. 
 
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on requirements to 
joint-venture with national firms. 
 
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration 
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified 
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating. 
 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of, inter alia, place of 
registration, ownership, and small size.  No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of 
source of labor, material or equipment. 
 
5. 
Government-owned entitles shall be eligible to participate in bidding for contracts if they 
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
law and are not a dependent agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
 
Standard Bidding Documents
6. 
Until a modified version of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been approved 
for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
 
Advertising bidding opportunities; time for bid preparation
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least 30 days for bid preparation and submission 
of bids (excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelves goods or standard 
specification commodities or small value works)  
 
8. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurements involving large or complex contracts 
shall be advertised.  
-15- 
 
9. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post qualification) 
shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so specified shall be 
used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders which are deemed 
not qualified to bid shall not be further considered and shall be rejected. 
 
Bid opening
10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be 
considered and shall be returned unopened.  
 
Rebidding
11. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received provided 
that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed capable 
of performing the contract in accordance with the criteria in the bidding documents.  
 
Bid evaluation
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and evaluation 
criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so specified 
shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of bids for 
goods and works contracts.  
 
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be present during 
evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to any bidder until 
the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
 
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as 
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw 
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
 
15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be 
applied. Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder. 
 
16. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior to 
contract award.  
 
-16- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15  
 
Beginning April 15, 2016  
 
through April 15, 2024 
 
5.56% 
On October 15, 2024 
 
5.48% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
-17- 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-18- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
represented by MOF, and the PIU pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of, and paragraph 3(a) of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to, this Agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006, with modifications set forth in Section III of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, a proponent of financial 
literacy and financial consumer protection initiatives from the private or public sector, 
non-government organization, non-profit organization, and professional association, each 
selected in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual; and 
“Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such beneficiaries. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Part A.2 Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010. 
6. 
“Consumer Protection Service” and the acronym “CPS” mean the Borrower’s 
Federal Service for Supervision of Consumers Protection and Welfare, or any successor 
thereto.   
7. 
“Expert Board” means the expert board referred to in paragraph 1(c) of Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
9. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, represented by MOF, the PIU and each administration of the Pilot Regions and 
Other Regions pursuant to paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
10. 
“Inter-agency Project Committee” and the acronym “IAPC” mean the Inter-agency 
Project Committee established by Order Number 182, dated March 25, 2010, issued by 
the Minister of Finance, as amended from time to time, and referred to in paragraph 1(a) 
of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
11. 
“MoEDU” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Science or any 
successor thereto. 
-19- 
12. 
“Ministry of Finance” and the acronym “MOF” mean the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance or any successor thereto. 
13. 
“Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental costs  incurred by  the PIU on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including: staff salaries; 
social charges; consultants’ services to support PIU activities, Project audit; training, 
conferences and seminars attended by PIU staff; dissemination of Project related 
information; office rent and utilities; office equipment and supplies; office and equipment 
insurance, maintenance and repair; vehicle rental, maintenance and repair; travel; 
communication; translation and interpretation; bank charges; and other miscellaneous 
costs directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the 
Bank. 
14. 
“Other Regions” means regions, other than the Pilot Regions, to be selected by the 
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual for 
purposes of implementing Part 2(c) of the Project. 
15. 
“Pilot Regions” means Kaliningrad, Tver, and Volgograd oblasts (regions) selected 
by the Ministry of Finance in July 2010 and agreed with the Bank for purposes of 
implementing Part 2(c) of the Project.  
16. 
“Project Implementing Unit” and the acronym “PIU” mean Non-Commercial 
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER), a 
legal entity organized and established pursuant to the law of the Borrower on non-
commercial organizations, and operating on the basis of its Charter dated July 5, 1996, as 
amended on June 2, 1997 and June 10, 2003, and was selected by the Borrower to assist 
MOF in the implementation of the Project and which is a party to the Agency Agreement. 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and 
May 2010. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
August 18, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the manual adopted by the MOF and the PIU 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, setting forth procedures and rules related 
to Project implementation, including the eligibility criteria and selection procedures for 
Sub-projects. 
20. 
“Regional Center for Financial Literacy” and the acronym “RCFL” mean the regional 
center for financial literacy established, or to be established, in the Pilot Regions and in 
Other Regions for purposes of implementing Part 2(c) of the Project; and “Regional 
Centers for Financial Literacy” and the acronym “RCFLs” mean, collectively, all such 
centers for financial literacy.   
-20- 
 
21. 
“Sub-project” means a specific sub-project under Part 3(c) or 4(b) of the Project, 
selected and approved for financing using the proceeds of the Loan and to be carried out 
by a Beneficiary, all in accordance the provisions in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Project Operations Manual. 
22. 
“Sub-project Contract” means an agreement entered between the PIU (on behalf of 
MOF) and a Beneficiary for the purposes of implementing a specific sub-project under 
Part 3(c) or 4(b) of the Project and referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
23. 
“Sub-project Financing” means financing (using proceeds of the Loan) for part of the 
cost of services under a Sub-project made pursuant to a Sub-project Contract and referred 
to in the table in paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
24. 
“Technical Services” means expenditures for: (a) Project related study tours, training 
courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities (which are not included under 
goods and consultants’ services), including costs of training materials, space and 
equipment rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees (including civil servants) and 
trainers; and (b) organizing, and providing technical support for implementation of 
Project activities, including workshops, study tours, round table discussions, conferences 
and other events. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of (i) a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration 
by another financier that the Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project 
Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financing made by such financier 
or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the 
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive 
or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by 
such financier.” 
-21- 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed by the 
Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or entities 
who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing 
made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures (fn13) a 
Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or entity, including (but 
not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible publicly, either 
indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; 
(ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a 
sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of 
the project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time 
the Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection with the use 
of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has entered into an 
agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person 
or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower 
or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
-22- 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
