CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7984-EG 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Farm-level Irrigation Modernization Project)
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 23, 2011  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7984-EG 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 23, 2011, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million United States Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“the 
Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“the 
Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR). 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principle amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the 
Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 81 of the Appendix of the General Conditions 
that apply to this Loan) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions.  
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate 
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of 
handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect of the Loan. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MALR in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and the Project Operational Manual. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
This Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that all 
necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.  
3
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of 
this Agreement, or such later date established by the Bank in accordance with Section 
9.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Minister of Planning and International Cooperation of the Borrower and the 
Assistant to the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of 
the Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as the 
Borrower’s Representative.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8 Adly Street, 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
(202) 2391-5167 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Inger Andersen 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to increase agricultural profitability and improve equity 
in access to higher-quality water for small-scale farmers in the command areas of Mahmoudia, 
Manaifa and Meet Yazid located in the Nile Delta.  
 
The Project and consists of the following parts: 
Part A:
Marwa and Farm-Level Irrigation Improvements
Provision of goods, works and services for carrying out a program to improve irrigation 
for farms, through EALIP, including:  
1. 
Carrying out of marwa improvements, such as installation of various pipe and hydrant 
systems, construction of lined open channels and small gated outlets. 
2. 
Upgrading of existing mesqa systems; such as modifications of mesqa inlets; upgrading 
of mesqa pumping stations and associated fittings; replacement of diesel pumps at the 
mesqa pumping stations with electric or diesel pumps or rehabilitation of existing diesel 
ones; installation of dedicated rural electric-power grids or upgrade of existing ones to 
operate the electric pumps and provision of new valves for off take into marwas. 
3. 
Carrying out of land improvement activities, such as laser land-leveling, reshaping of 
field drains, soil improvements, and use of flexible hose systems and gated pipes.  
4. 
Carrying out of field surveys, designs, and construction supervision and management. 
Part B:
Farm-Level Technology Modernization
Provision of goods, works and services for carrying out a program to enhance farmer 
knowledge and adoption of technologies that improve irrigation and associated land and 
crop production, through ARC, including:  
1. 
Organization of farmer meetings and exchange visits to increase farmer awareness of 
marwa improvements.  
2. 
Carrying out demonstrations of improved marwa and farm-level irrigation systems, 
improved on-farm water management, and associated land improvement and agronomic 
practices for both field crops and horticultural crops. 
3. 
Provision of training of: (a) lead farmers and extension staff in irrigation management 
and associated practices; and (b) private sector service providers, all through workshops 
on installation and repair of irrigation infrastructure, project implementation and 
administration staff, and senior management and policy level officials. 
4. 
Carrying out a program to improve extension delivery through: publications and mass 
media broadcasting; increasing the outreach of various networks (such as MALR’s 
6
interactive web-based extension information networks, Rural and Agricultural 
Development Communication Network and Virtual Extension and Research 
Communication Network); facility improvement; and provision of transportation and 
field allowances.  
5. 
Provision of Project implementation support, including: (a) carrying out pilots and studies 
to support development of future field-level irrigation improvement and monitoring and 
evaluation activities; and (b) carrying out of activities related to implementation of the 
EMP.  
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the duration of the Project: (a) the Project 
Steering Committee; and (b) the Project Management Unit, as detailed in the POM, with 
membership, functions and responsibilities and with staff in adequate numbers whose 
qualifications and experience shall be at all times acceptable to the Bank.   
2. 
Not later than one month after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall, through EALIP, 
furnish to the Bank the POM on terms acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) establish by not later than June 30, 2011 a monitoring and 
evaluation system designed under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (b) provide 
adequate training to staff responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
activities; and (c) thereafter, use the said evaluation and monitoring system to monitor the 
progress achieved in the execution of the Project. 
4. 
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out an assessment, based on terms of reference acceptable 
to the Bank, of the following procurement methods i.e. force account, community based 
procurement and community based contracting schemes; (b) by June 30, 2013 furnish the 
results of the said assessment to the Bank for its review and comments; and (c) integrate 
the recommendations resulting from the said assessment as they shall have been agreed 
upon with the Bank to enhance these contracting schemes to ensure sustainable 
implementation of the Project. 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out pursuant to the provisions of 
Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications 
related thereto as agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank on November 3, 2010. 
B. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the EMP in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and (b) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the EMP as 
referred to in the Appendix.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty 
five days (45) after the end of the period covered by such report.  
8
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MALR, maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MALR, prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements related to the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Services.   All goods works and technical services required for the 
Project and to be financed by the Bank under the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, respectively, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
9
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
paragraph 3 below. 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Force Account 
(e) Established Private or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to 
the Bank 
(f) Community Participation Procedures described in the POM. 
(g) Non-consulting Services procured in accordance with paragraph 3.14 
(performance-based or output-based procurement) of the Procurement Guidelines. 
3. 
The draft bidding documents for goods and works to be procured through NCB shall 
incorporate the principles established in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines; they 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
technical services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and 
Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Services. The following table specifies the methods 
of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be used for 
technical services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection (for audits) 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Established Private or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to 
the Bank 
(g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants. 
(h) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
10 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 1. 
The Borrower may through MALR withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional  arrangements  as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including 
the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such  
arrangements), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
 
(1) Goods and works under the 
Project 
 
98,750,000 
60% 
(2) Technical services and 
non-consultants services under 
the Project 
 
1,000,000 
60% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
100,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016 
11 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2018  
 
through July 15, 2038 
 
2.33% 
On January 15, 2039 
2.14% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
12 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
13 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“ARC” means the Agricultural Research Center of the MALR established pursuant to 
Presidential Decree 2425/1971 and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
“Co-financier” means the Agence Française de Developpment. “Co-financing” means, 
for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General Conditions, an amount of 
thirty five million Euros (�35,000,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in 
financing the Project. 
 
4. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. The Co-financing Agreement is 
expected to have become effective by not later than June 30, 2011. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
6. 
“EALIP” means the Executive Authority for Land Improvement Projects of the MALR 
established pursuant to Presidential Decree 2431/1971 and includes any successor or 
successors thereto. 
7. 
“EMP” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Plan for the Project, including 
sound environmental and pest management practices and standards, furnished to 
the Bank on August 10, 2010, as such EMP may be updated from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring 
and institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the 
Project to offset or reduce potential adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
9. 
“MALR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation and any 
successor thereof. 
 
10. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 
2010. 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 3, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
14 
 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
 “Project Management Unit” and “PMU” mean the Project management unit referred to 
in Section I. A. 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
13. 
“Project Operational Manual” (POM) means the project operational manual referred to in 
Section I. A. 2 of Schedule 2  of this Agreement, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time. 
14. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the Project Steering Committee referred to in 
Section I. A. 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
