 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7995-IN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(PMGSY Rural Roads Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
INDIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated January 14, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated January 14, 2011, between INDIA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Whereas the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
project described in Schedule 1 to the financing agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the International Development Association (“Association”) (“Financing 
Agreement”), the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project under the Financing Agreement pursuant 
to which the Association is making a credit to the Borrower in an amount equal to  
six hundred thirty six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 636,300,000) (“Financing” or “Credit”). 
 
Now therefore, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General 
Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Financing Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million Dollars 
($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
the Financing Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
- 2 - 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower through NRRDA shall: (a) carry out its Respective Parts of the 
- 3 - 
Project; (b) cause the Participating States, through SRRDA, to carry out their 
Respective Parts of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02.      (a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement, which are incorporated into this Agreement with the 
following modifications unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
(i) 
the term “Association” shall be read as “Bank”; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Financing” or “Credit” shall be read as “Loan”; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Recipient” shall be read as “Borrower”; 
 
(iv) 
the term “General Conditions” shall be read as the “International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions 
for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 and its corresponding Sections; 
and 
 
(v) 
the term “this Agreement” or “the Financing Agreement” shall 
be read as the “Loan Agreement”. 
 
(b) 
So long as any part of the Financing provided for under the Financing 
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been 
notified otherwise by the Bank: 
 
(i) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association 
pursuant to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the 
Financing Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of this 
Section shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on 
behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and 
 
(ii) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Recipient to 
the Association pursuant to the provisions of any of such 
Sections of the Financing Agreement or Schedules thereto shall 
be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the Association. 
 
(c) 
If the Financing Agreement terminates prior to the termination of this 
Agreement, the provisions of the Financing Agreement referred to in this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower 
and the Bank. 
 
- 4 - 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely 
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement 
other than the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following: the Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, India 
 
Facsimile: 
 
91-11-23092039 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
1-202-477-6391 
 
 
- 5 - 
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
INDIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Venu Rajamony 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
  
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ N. Roberto Zagha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE  
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
 
Beginning June 15, 2016  
 
through June 15, 2028 
 
 
3.85% 
On December 15, 2028 
3.75% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
- 7 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 8 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
- 9 - 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
