  
  
  
  
  
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8009-UZ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Talimarjan Transmission Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 16, 2011  
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
LOAN NUMBER 8009-UZ 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated September 16, 2011, between the Republic of Uzbekistan 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and ten million Dollars, 
($110,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
2 
  
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
3 
  
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
4 
  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(b)  
The PMU established by the Project Implementing Entity is functioning 
with a composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity has adopted the POM satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
(d) 
The Project Implementing Entity has established a Project financial 
management system including budgeting, accounting, reporting, audit 
and internal controls satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following. 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Mustakilik Square 5 
 
Tashkent 100008 
 
Republic of Uzbekistan 
5 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 6360 IK BOL 
(998-71) 244-5643 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(998-71) 239-1259 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Rustam Azimov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Takuya Kamata  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
7 
  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the reliability of the electricity supply 
to residential and business consumers in South-Western Uzbekistan. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Strengthening of Power Transmission Network   
 
(a) 
Construction of about 220 km single-circuit 500 kV transmission line from 
Talimarjan Thermal Power Plant to Sogdiana Substation;  
 
(b) 
Construction of 500/220 kV open switch-yard at Talimarjan Thermal Power 
Plant;  
 
(c) 
Construction of a bay extension at Sogdiana Substation; and 
 
(d) 
Construction of a 500 kV connection line from the 500/220 kV open switch-yard 
at Talimarjan Thermal Power Plant to the Karakul-Guzar transmission line. 
 
Part 2: Institutional Strengthening 
 
(a) 
Strengthening the Project Implementing Entity’s and its subsidiaries’ technical 
and fiduciary capacity through: 
 
(i) 
assistance in the establishment of an internal audit unit; development of 
internal audit procedures; and provision of training on the generation of 
internal audit reports in compliance with International Internal Audit 
Standards; 
 
(ii) 
acquisition of the Global Information System software; software for 
transmission network system design, planning, financial and economic 
analysis; technical study tour(s) to familiarize the Project Implementing 
Entity’s staff with the international good practices in these fields; 
 
(iii) 
assistance in the adoption of the International Electrotechnical 
Commission 
technical 
standards 
for 
transmission 
lines 
and 
switchyard/substation equipment and training; 
 
(iv) 
technical assistance to the Project Implementing Entity for the further 
development of the renewable energy program, including assessment of 
8 
  
wind power potential and design of the institutional framework for 
development of wind power program; and 
 
(v) 
technical assistance for the mitigation of avian risk during Project 
implementation, including post-construction bird mortality monitoring 
and provision of training on the development of standardized approach 
for collision and electrocution monitoring of transmission lines and 
towers.  
 
(b) 
Strengthening the Project Implementing Entity’s capacity for Project 
management, monitoring, reporting and evaluation, including procurement, 
financial management and disbursement activities and carrying out the Project 
and the Project Implementing Entity audit. 
 
9 
  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational 
arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the POM and shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provisions of the POM without prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, 
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, 
which shall include the following (“Subsidiary Agreement”):  the principal 
amount of the Loan made available under the Subsidiary Agreement (“Subsidiary 
Loan”) shall be:  
 
(a) 
denominated and repayable in Dollars;  
 
(b) 
charged interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at the rate equal to the interest rate payable by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement plus 0.2%; and  
 
(c) 
repayable over a period of 25 years from the date of the Subsidiary 
Agreement, inclusive of a grace period of 5 years. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
10 
  
 
D. 
Safeguards   
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, carry out 
the Project in accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational 
arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the EMP and the RAP, and 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provisions of the EMP or the RAP 
without prior approval of the Bank. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the commencement of any construction 
works under the Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to submit to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank that 
the owners or users of the land subject to acquisition due to implementation of 
said works under the Project, whether on a permanent or temporary basis, have 
been fully compensated in accordance with the provisions of the RAP. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators acceptable to the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the end of such period.  
11 
  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule 2 required to comply with the provisions of the 
Procurement Guidelines 
 
(b) 
Limited International Bidding 
 
(c) 
Shopping 
 
(d) 
Direct Contracting 
 
 
12 
  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality Based Selection 
 
(b) 
Fixed Budget Selection 
 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualification 
 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
 
(f) 
Individual Consultant 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
13 
  
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, consultant and 
technical services, and 
training for the Project 
 
109,725,000 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
      275,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
 
110,000,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of 
$15,000,000, may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after 
March 1, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
14 
  
Annex to Schedule 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding 
Contracts for goods and technical services (other than consulting services) 
procured under the National Competitive Bidding procedures shall comply with the 
following provisions: 
 
1. 
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
 
(b) 
Where registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a reasonable 
time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not be denied 
registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-
qualification. 
 
(c) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration 
process is required, a foreign bidder declared the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to register. 
 
2. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids. 
 
3. 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations 
to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for 
the submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical 
and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification 
documents. 
 
4. 
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Uzbekistan shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and 
financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent 
agency of the contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the 
same bid performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
5. 
Purchasers shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods, works or services, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
6. 
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents. 
15 
  
 
(c) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall 
take place. 
 
(d) 
Price verification should not be applied to Bank-financed contracts. 
 
7. 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
8. 
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of bids received is less than three (3), re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
16 
  
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning July 15, 2016  
 
through January 15, 2036 
 
 
2.5% 
 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
17 
  
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
18 
  
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan incorporated in the 
Environmental Impact Assessment Supplement (disclosed in Uzbekistan on 
November 5, 2010 and at the Bank’s Infoshop on November 11, 2010) prepared 
as supplement to the Environmental Impact Assessment for the Project, which 
Environmental Management Plan incorporates the recommendations in the Avian 
Risk Assessment for the Project, and which may be updated as necessary during 
Project implementation with the Bank’s prior written approval. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
6. 
 “PMU” means the Project Management Unit referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, established within the Project Implementing Entity to carry out 
the implementation and day to day management of the Project, and which shall 
include, inter alia: (i) a project coordinator; (ii) a financial management 
specialist; and (iii) a procurement specialist. 
 
7. 
“POM” means the Project Operations Manual to be adopted by the Borrower and 
the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement, 
setting forth the operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and 
rules for the implementation of the Project, data collection and reporting, and 
which includes a manual of financial management procedures that sets out 
procedures for Project accounting, reporting and audit, disbursements, flow of 
funds and management of the designated account as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010.  
 
19 
  
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 27, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
10. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means UZBEKENERGO, a legal entity 
responsible for implementing the Project established pursuant to the Decree of 
the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. УП-2812 dated February 22, 
2001, and the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of 
Uzbekistan No. 93 dated February 24, 2001, and existing under the laws of the 
Republic of Uzbekistan, and includes its successors and permitted assignees. 
 
11. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Decree of the President of 
the Republic of Uzbekistan No. УП-2812 dated February 22, 2001 and the 
Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 93 
dated February 24, 2001, and associated documentation establishing, governing, 
or otherwise regulating the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
12. 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated November 28, 2010 and 
referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said plan may be 
amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Bank. 
 
13. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
14. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means the principal amount of the Loan made available by the 
Borrower to the Project Implementing Entity under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
 
