 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8016-PA 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Enhanced Public Sector Efficiency Technical Assistance Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 26, 2011  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated September 26, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty five million Dollars ($55,000,000), (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(e) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management, namely: a 
change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
 
-2- 
 
Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a 
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
through MEF, carry out Parts 1, 2 (a) of the Project and those Project activities 
under Part 4 of the Project which fall within the jurisdiction of MEF; 
 
(b) 
cause CGR to carry out Parts  2 (b), 2 (c) and those Project activities under Part 4 
of the Project which fall within the jurisdiction of CGR; and 
 
(c) 
cause DGCP to carry out Part 3 of the Project (in partnership with the Borrower’s 
Procurement Administrative Tribunal with respect to Part 3 (d) of the Project) 
and those Project activities under Part 4 of the Project which fall within the 
jurisdiction of DGCP. 
 
All the above in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and the Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
CGR Legislation and/or DGCP Legislation have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the ability of CGR and/or DGCP, as the case may be, to 
perform any of its obligations under the Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement; 
and 
 
(b) 
CGR and/or DGCP have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any event 
specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for 
a period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
 
-3- 
 
Borrower, unless the Borrower establishes, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Tripartite 
Inter-Institutional Agreement has been assigned or transferred to successor entities 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
parties thereto; and  
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, though MEF, CGR 
and DGCP, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Tripartite Inter-
Institutional Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and are 
legally binding upon MEF, CGR and DGCP, in accordance with its  terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
shall be the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Financing which shall 
expire on September 3, 2012. 
 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
Facsimile: (507) 507-7200 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
-4- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Mario E. Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist public agencies of the Borrower in producing, 
using and disseminating timely and quality performance information, thereby allowing a more 
efficient, transparent and accountable use of the Borrower’s public budget funds. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: 
Strengthening Performance-Based Budget Management and Evaluation 
 
The provision of support to MEF, including, goods, IT equipment, operating costs, 
training and technical assistance for the carrying out of activities aimed at:  
 
(a) 
improving the institutional and technical capacities of MEF for performance-
based strategic planning and budgeting in order to create conditions for 
enhancing the quality of public spending, including, inter alia: (i) strengthening 
and harmonizing institutional planning and budgeting frameworks; (ii) 
organizational strengthening and re-designing of MEF and other sector planning 
and budgeting responsible units within the Borrower’s central government 
structure; (iii) introducing annual and multi-annual budget planning and 
programming tools; (iv) defining and institutionalizing methodologies for 
strategic planning and budgeting; and (v) developing technical, managerial and 
organizational capacities for result-based planning and budgeting; and 
 
(b) 
supporting the development and institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation 
functions and systems at the national level and in Pilot Sectors, including, inter 
alia: (i) designing and implementing a national monitoring and evaluation system 
under MEF coordination and leadership; (ii) designing and implementing pilot 
monitoring and evaluation systems in Pilot Sectors; (iii) enhancing the 
production, quality, utilization and availability of performance information; (iv) 
developing technical, managerial and organizational capacities for the 
institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation functions and systems; and (v) 
producing and disseminating methodologies for the institutionalization of 
monitoring and evaluation functions and systems. 
 
Part 2: 
New Financial Management Model: Strengthening Budget Execution, 
Treasury, Accounting and Control  
 
The provision of support to MEF (only with respect to paragraph (a) below) and CGR, 
including goods, operating costs, training and technical assistance, for the modernization of the 
Borrower’s current financial management system, through the carrying out of activities aimed at: 
 
(a) 
consolidating and integrating all core public financial management processes 
within the Borrower’s central government, focusing on interoperability and 
integration among selected MEF areas such as budgeting, accounting, treasury, 
payroll, public procurement, public investment and planning, including, inter 
alia: (i) conceptual and functional designing of a new financial management 
 
-6- 
 
system to be used by all public sector agencies; (ii) defining an applicable 
technological framework (software requirements, IT security policies, software 
architecture design, server levels agreements for software, hardware and selected 
services); (iii) analyzing alternatives for implementing the new financial 
management model; (iv) customizing/constructing information technology 
systems compatible with the alternative selected under (iii) above; (v) reviewing 
and updating  normative framework supporting the new financial management 
model; and (vi) supporting the implementation of the new financial management 
model in all public sector agencies, including the provision of the relevant 
training to personnel working on such agencies; 
 
(b) 
modernizing control systems performed by CGR, through the strengthening of: 
(i) the Borrower’s financial management control framework; (ii) the internal 
control framework and internal audit functions in the public sector; (iii) CGR’s 
institutional support functions, including human resources, IT, and learning 
management; (iv) the promotion of public participation in the public financial 
management oversight, including the strengthening of the existing claims and 
allegations center concerning public financial mismanagement; and (v) the public 
accounting standards in coordination with MEF; and 
 
(c) 
supporting the Borrower’s statistical capacity, through: (i) the provision of 
technical assistance for the improvement of national accounts and survey data; 
(ii) the provision of training to enhance INEC’s capacities; and (iii) the 
acquisition of the necessary software and hardware to upgrade INEC’s systems 
and capacity to produce, analyze and disseminate statistics. 
 
Part 3:  
Strengthening Public Procurement and Contracting Capacity 
 
The provision of support to DGCP, including goods and IT equipment, training and 
technical assistance, for the reform of the Borrower’s public procurement process, through the 
carrying out of activities aimed at:  
 
(a) 
supporting the institutional strengthening of DGCP, as well as building the 
capacity of public procurement officials, including, inter alia: (i) the 
development of a curriculum to support the professional development of 
procurement public officials in line with the business needs of the different 
government procurement organizations, in partnership with INADEH; (ii) the 
development and implementation of an educational campaign for suppliers and 
civil society; (iii) the development of a business continuity model including all 
aspects related to the security and integrity of the system, along with a document 
management system; (iv) the creation of a supplier registry and the required 
management tools to ensure its efficient operation and connection with existing 
government systems within the Borrower’s central government; and (v) the 
development of a demand-driven approach to carry out specific efficiency 
analysis to identify opportunities for savings and efficiency gains; 
 
(b) 
supporting the ongoing  legal and regulatory reforms to pursue the modernization 
of the Borrower’s public procurement system and processes, including, inter alia: 
(i) the drafting of a new procurement law, the necessary regulations and manuals; 
 
-7- 
 
(ii) the development of training and educational materials on the application of 
the new legal framework as well as the necessary training to build the capacity of 
legal and compliance teams throughout the public service; and (iii) the 
development of standard bidding documents; 
 
(c) 
supporting the ongoing development of the Borrower’s e-procurement platform 
PanamaCompra version2, including, inter alia: (i) the development of modules 
to replace the existing electronic catalogs; (ii) the interface with the financial 
management system and other public sector management systems; (iii) the 
modernization of office and management systems, including the review and 
update of the security system, as well as the implementation of new measures to 
strengthen the integrity of the system; and (iv) the development and 
implementation of a complaints management system for DGCP, together with the 
implementation of quality standards such as ISO and the Capability Maturity 
Model Integration (CMMI); and 
 
(d) 
developing a research center in the Borrower’s Procurement Administrative 
Tribunal, including, inter alia: (i) the provision of the necessary hardware and 
software for the set up of a virtual library that will compile best practices in 
public procurement, as well as relevant doctrine and jurisprudence; and (ii) the 
carrying out of capacity building activities for public officials, lawyers and civil 
society stakeholders involved in procurement processes. 
 
Part 4:   Creation and Support of Project Management Capacities 
The provision of support to MEF, CGR and DGCP including, inter alia, goods and IT 
equipment, training and technical assistance for the carrying out of adequate management,  
monitoring, reporting, auditing and evaluation of Project implementation activities, as well as the 
Borrower’s public sector efficiency reform agenda.   
 
 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements   
 1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that within MEF: 
 
(a) 
responsibility is assigned internally for the overall implementation, coordination, 
monitoring and reporting of the Project among selected departments and units of 
MEF described in detail in the Operational Manual and coordinated by DPI; and  
(b) 
a team of dedicated professionals is established within DPI and thereafter 
maintained, throughout Project implementation, to provide administrative 
support to the technical focal points in the departments and units concerned of 
Project implementation. Said team  shall further: 
  
(i) 
operate with structure, mandate and resources satisfactory at all times to 
the Bank; and consist of staff, each having qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, including among them, as the case may be, 
specialists selected and appointed in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
be entrusted with exclusive responsibility for ensuring the overall Project 
coordination in collaboration with DGCP and CGR Project implementing 
teams, including in respect of the financial and audit aspects thereof and 
the monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause CGR and DGCP respectively to establish and maintain 
throughout Project implementation, Project implementing teams consisting of 
professionals having qualifications and experience at all times satisfactory to the Bank, 
including among them, as the case may be, specialists selected and appointed in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, establish and 
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, a Reform Steering Committee: 
(a) 
responsible for, inter alia: (i) the Project progress oversight, orientation and 
coordination; (ii) addressing constraints in Project implementation; and (iii) 
approving annual operating plans for the Project; and  
(b) 
chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance and comprising representatives 
of MEF, CGR and DGCP, all as further set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
-9- 
 
B. 
Inter-Institutional Agreements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of CGR and DGCP’s respective Parts of the Project, the 
Borrower, through MEF, shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to CGR, 
and DGCP, under an inter-institutional agreement, entered into, on behalf of the 
Borrower, among MEF, CGR and DGCP, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Bank, (“Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement”), which shall include, inter alia, the 
following: 
 
(a) 
the arrangement for the harmonization, rationalization and consolidation by MEF 
of all financial managements issues, audit and reporting for the Project; 
 
(b) 
the requirement that CGR and DGCP promptly inform MEF and the Bank of any 
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with the performance of 
their respective obligations under the Project; and 
 
(c) 
the requirement that CGR and DGCP shall comply with the pertinent provisions 
of this Agreement, the Operation Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Tripartite 
Inter-Institutional Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail 
to enforce the Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement or any of their provisions. 
 
C. 
Operational Manual 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MEF shall adopt, and shall cause CGR and DGCP to adopt an 
operational manual for the Project (“Operational Manual”),  satisfactory in form and 
substance to the Bank, and consisting of different schedules setting forth, respectively, 
rules, methods, guidelines, specific development plans, standard documents and 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including the following: (a) the detailed 
operational strategy for Project coordination; (b) the detailed description of Project 
implementation activities, their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto; (c) the qualification, experience, functions, responsibilities, structure  
of key staff of DPI in MEF, CGR and DGCP assigned to Project execution, the detailed 
composition of the Reform Steering Committee under the Project, all the institutional 
arrangements in respect thereof and the ensuing assignment of respective responsibilities 
for the Project activities, including, inter alia, the financing, procurement, reporting and 
auditing aspects thereof; (d) the Project administrative, financial, accounting, auditing, 
procurement and disbursement procedures, including all pertinent standard documents 
and model contracts in relation thereto; (e) the overview of planned capacity building and 
training activities, including workshops and study tours, to be carried out for purposes of 
the Project; (f) the final form of the interim unaudited financial reports and Financial 
Statements for the Project and the terms of reference for the financial audits of the 
Project; (g) the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the Project; and (h) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
 
-10- 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MEF, and shall cause CGR and DGCP to: (a) maintain the 
Operational Manual throughout Project implementation; (b) take all measures necessary 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in conformity with the Operational Manual; and 
(c) only amend the Operational Manual, from time to time, with the Bank’ prior written 
consent. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and shall cause 
CGR and DGCP not to, (including not allowing any party to any contract or agreement 
entered into with CGR and DGCP for purposes of this Loan), amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provisions thereof. 
 
3. 
In the event of a conflict between any provision of the Operational Manual and any one 
under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
D. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DGCP, not later than 3 months after the Effective Date, to 
enter into an inter-institutional agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Procurement 
Administrative Tribunal therein allowing DGCP to execute Project activities under Part 3 
(d) of the Project, on behalf and for the benefit of the Procurement Administrative 
Tribunal, all in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the 
Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement, the Operation Manual and the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines.  
 
2. 
MEF shall ensure throughout Project implementation that DPI prepares and submits 
regular overall Project progress reports to the Reform Steering Committee for its review.  
 
E. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall, through MEF, and shall cause CGR and DGCP to, ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain in MEF and shall cause to be maintained in CGR and 
DGCP respectively a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall:  
 
 
-11- 
 
(a) 
through MEF, prepare for the respective parts of the Project implemented 
by MEF, interim unaudited financial reports covering the semester, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
cause CGR and DGCP each to prepare for the respective parts of the 
Project that they are implementing interim unaudited financial reports 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
and thereafter through MEF, furnish to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of each calendar semester, as part of the Project Report for 
the Loan, the said unaudited financial reports for MEF together with the 
interim unaudited financial reports for CGR and DGCP respectively.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MEF, have the Financial Statements for the Project, 
including the relevant parts of the Project implemented by MEF, CGR and DGCP 
respectively, audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions for the Loan Agreement. Each audit of the Financial Statements described 
heretofore shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements described heretofore for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Non-consultant services. All goods and Non-consultant services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, and Non-consultant Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding based on SBDs previously agreed with the 
Bank and subject to the following additional procedures which shall equally apply in 
respect of any procurement of goods and Non-consultant Services carried out using NCB 
and Shopping procedures mentioned in the next paragraph 2 (a) below: 
 
 
-12- 
 
(a) 
foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as a 
prerequisite for bidding; 
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the time of 
bid opening; 
 
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid meeting 
as a condition to bid. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-consultant Services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB), subject to: (i) the additional procedures set 
forth in Section III B. 1 above; and (ii) the additional requirement that the time 
allowed for preparation and submission of bids shall not be less than four weeks, 
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank. 
(b) Shopping, subject to: (i) the additional procedures set forth in Section III B. 1 
above and (ii) the additional requirement that a minimum of three quotations shall 
be obtained as a condition to award the contract. 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-Based Selection.  
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications. 
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget. 
(d) Least Cost Selection. 
(e) Single Source Selection. 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
 
-13- 
 
3. 
Special Provisions. With respect to each method set forth in this Section III. C, the 
procurement of consultants’ services shall be carried out subject to the following 
additional provisions, namely, that foreign consultants shall not be required to:  
 
(a) 
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax 
status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and  
 
(b)   
submit their proposals in person. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions  
 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be subject 
to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank.  
 
2. 
 In case of conflict between the provisions of the Procurement Plan and the provisions of 
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.   
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions). 
 
2. 
The  proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in 
Section IV. A. 1 immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars 
provided under the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures. 
 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the Loan 
(“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
  
(1) Goods, Non-consultant 
Services, Training, Operating 
costs and consultants’ services for 
Parts 1 and 2 (a) of the Project 
 
28,000,000 
100% 
 
-14- 
 
 
(2) Goods, Non-consultant 
Services, Training, Operating 
costs and consultants’ services 
for Parts 2 (b) and (c) of the 
Project 
 
11,500,000 
100% 
(3) Goods, Non-consultant 
Services, Training, Operating 
costs and consultants’ services 
for Part 3 of the Project 
 
15,000,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, Non-consultant 
Services, Operating costs, 
Training and consultants’ 
services for Part 4 of the 
Project 
 
500,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
55,000,000 
 
 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
“Training” means reasonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower for the 
carrying out of training activities under the Project, including reasonable costs of 
travel and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of training facilities and 
equipment, refreshments, publishing services and printing training materials. 
 
(b) 
“Operating Costs” means incremental expenditures incurred by the Borrower for 
recurrent costs associated with the implementation of the Project, including: (i) 
office supplies, rental of office facilities and utilities; (ii) transportation costs, 
travel and per diem cost for technical staff which will carry supervisory activities 
under the Project; and (iii) vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance costs. 
 
(c) 
“Non-consultant Services” means services to be contracted for, inter alia, 
communication campaigns, including surveys and outreach programs and IT 
connections. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1 million (one million Dollars) 
equivalent may be made for payments made twelve months prior to this date but 
on or after January 24, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2016. 
 
 
-15- 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2015  
 
through May 15, 2035 
  
 
 
2.38% 
On November 15, 2035  
2.42% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
 
-16- 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
 
 
-17- 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.  
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
“CGR” means Contraloría General de la República, the Borrower’s Office of the 
Comptroller, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
“CGR Legislation” means Law No. 32 of the Borrower dated November 8, 1984, and its 
subsequent modifications, which establishes CGR as an independent entity discharging 
the duties of general comptroller’s office over Borrower’s funds.  
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
6. 
“DGCP” means Dirección General de Contrataciones Públicas, an autonomous entity 
responsible for public procurement of all public sector entities of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
7. 
“DGCP Legislation” means Law No. 22 dated June 27, 2006, and its subsequent 
modifications, establishing DGCP as an independent entity subject to the supervision of 
CGR and the Borrower’s policies issued by MEF. 
 
8. 
“DPI” means Dirección de Programación de Inversiones, the Department of Investment 
Planning of MEF. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
10. 
“INADEH” means Instituto Nacional de Formación Profesional y Capacitación para el 
Desarrollo Humano, the Borrower’s national institute for profesional training and human 
development. 
 
11. 
“INEC” means Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censo, the Borrower’s national 
institute of statistics and census. 
 
12. 
“Inter-Institutional Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.D.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement pursuant to which the Procurement Administrative 
Tribunal allows DGCP to execute Project activities under Part 3 (d) of the Project. 
 
13. 
“ISO” means International Organization for Standardization. 
 
-18- 
 
 
14. 
“IT” means information technology. 
 
15. 
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
 
16. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the Project referred to in Section I. C. 1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Pilot Sectors” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social 
Development, Ministry of Government and any other ministry proposed by the Borrower 
and acceptable to the Bank. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Administrative Tribunal” means a tribunal of the Borrower, responsible for 
deciding and arbitrating public procurement issues and cases. 
  
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 
2010. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
January 27, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
21. 
“Reform Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I. A. 3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement” means the agreement among the Borrower, 
through MEF, CGR and DGCP and referred to in Section I. B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
