 
  
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7841-BR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Bolsa Família Project - Projeto Consolidação do Programa Bolsa Família  
e Apoio ao Compromisso Nacional pelo Desenvolvimento Social) 
 
 
between 
 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 21, 2011 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7841-BR 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated, September 21, 2011, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC 
OF BRAZIL (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated April 
14, 2004, which describes the Borrower’s policies, strategies and activities to strengthen 
the Borrower’s Bolsa Familia Program (the BF Program); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the BF Program 
through a series of two loans to the Borrower over a period of approximately four and a 
half years; 
 
(C) 
by an agreement dated May 24, 2005, between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the First BF Loan Agreement), the Bank granted to the Borrower a loan in the  
original amount of five hundred and seventy-two million two hundred thousand Dollars 
($572,200,000) to assist in reimbursing and financing part of the costs of the BF Program 
(the First BF Project); 
 
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), which Project forms 
part of the BF Program, has requested the Bank: (i) to support the Project by reimbursing 
part of the costs incurred by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, and (ii) to 
assist in the financing part of the costs of the technical assistance needs of the Project; 
and 
 
(E)  
the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower, for the purposes of the BF Program, upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
2 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in reimbursing and financing part of the Project. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as reimbursement for part of the 
costs incurred by the Borrower in the carrying out of Part A of the Project, and 
financing part of the costs in the carrying out of Parts B, C, D, E and F of the 
Project.  The Borrower’s representative for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section in respect of Part A of 
the Project is the Borrower’s Secretary of the National Treasury of the Ministry 
of Finance, or any person, or persons whom he/she shall designate.  The 
Borrower’s representative for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section in respect of Parts B, C, D, E and F 
of the Project is the Minister of Social Development or any person or persons 
whom he/she shall designate.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, through the  Secretary of the National 
Treasury, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
3 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the 
Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of 
the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MDS, in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.   
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following, namely that the Loan has 
been validly registered by the Borrower’s Central Bank. 
 
4 
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
which expire on March 16, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministério de Fazenda 
Procuradoria Geral de Fazenda Nacional 
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco “P” 8º andar 
70048-900 
Brasilia, DF 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: 
(55-61) 3412-1740 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Desenvolvimento Social e Combate a Fome 
Secretaria Executiva  
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “C” - 6º andar 
70054-900 
Brasília, DF 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
(55-61) 3433-1129 
 
 
SEAIN – Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do  
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
Esplanada dos Ministérios – Bloco “K” – 5º andar 
70040-906  
Brasília, DF 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
(55-61) 2020-5006 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
AGREED at Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ana Lucia Gatto de Oliveira 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
6 
Witnessed by: 
 
/s/ Marcelo Cardona Rocha 
Deputy Executive Secretary 
Ministry of Social Development 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description  
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the BF Program’s ability to achieve 
its objective of reducing poverty and inequality and promoting human capital 
development by improving schooling and health status of children and reducing 
incidence of malnutrition among the poor population. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A:  Conditional Cash Transfers (BF Grants) 
 
 
Provision by the Borrower of grants (the BF Grants) to mothers or other 
designated family members to enable their families to access health, education and other 
services as provided in the BF Program and the Operational Manual. 
 
Part B: Strengthening the Cadastro Único as the Main Targeting Instrument for 
Social Programs  
 
 
Provision of support, training, selected Incremental Operating Costs and 
technical assistance to improve and consolidate the Cadastro Único as the main 
mechanism used to select the target population of the BF Program and to integrate social 
programs at the federal and sub-national levels by, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
improving the quality of the information collected and reported by the 
Cadastro Único and carrying out of strategies to further develop the 
MDS targeting mechanisms in order to provide more accurate data for 
decision making; 
 
(b) 
strengthening the identification and registry of Indigenous Peoples and 
Quilombola populations, taking into special consideration their cultural 
and social conditions;  
 
(c) 
strengthening the information technology and systems of Cadastro 
Único;  
 
7 
(d) 
promoting access to and use of Cadastro Único for decision-making by 
other programs and government agencies at federal, state and local 
authority levels; and 
 
 
(e) 
supporting the carrying out of the second round of the continuous survey 
on living conditions of low income families registered in the Cadastro 
Único. 
 
Part C:  Institutional Strengthening for the Consolidation of the BF Program 
 
 
Strengthening of the management, governance and accountability capacity of 
MDS to implement the BF Program, including through: 
 
(a) 
Strengthening the BF Program’s overall management and operation, 
including, inter alia: (i) strengthening BF Program decentralized 
management; (ii) consolidating the BF Program control and 
accountability mechanisms; and (iii) designing and implementing a 
comprehensive capacity building strategy to enhance capacity of BF 
Program staff and control agencies at federal, state and municipal levels 
through activities such as training, selected Incremental Operating Costs, 
technical assistance, and provision of IT-related equipment, among 
others. 
 
(b) 
Improving the management of the BF Program co-responsibilities, 
including, inter alia: (i) improving the compliance verification process; 
(ii) developing strategies for indentifying factors causing non-
compliance with co-responsibilities and enhancing incentives for 
complying with the support of the social assistance network at the local 
level; (iii) strengthening social control mechanisms of the BF Program; 
and (iv) consolidating the Good Practices Observatory and Contest. 
 
(c) 
Improving the management of BF Program benefits, including, inter 
alia: (i) updating socio-economic data on BF Program’s beneficiaries; 
(ii) improving the targeting mechanism of the BF Program; (iii) 
strengthening and improving the strategy of opening accounts for BF 
Beneficiaries (inclusão bancária); (iv) developing instruments of 
financial education; (v) developing a strategy to differentiate payments in 
remote areas to facilitate families residing there to collect their benefits 
on time with low or no cost; (vi) improving the logistics to distribute 
electronic payment cards; and (vii) assessing and, if appropriate, 
adjusting the management of BF Program benefits (blocking, 
unblocking, cancellation, reinstatement and suspension of benefits) and 
defining the roles of local and federal authorities. 
8 
 
Part D:  Consolidation of the MDS Monitoring and Evaluation System 
 
Provision of support, training, technical assistance, equipment and selected 
Incremental Operating Costs to consolidate MDS’s capacity to monitor and evaluate 
social programs at federal and sub-national level and to strengthen its capacity to, inter 
alia: (a) carry out assessments, evaluations and other studies; (b) disseminate and discuss 
with stakeholders results from evaluations; and (c) carry out evaluations and other studies 
in the following areas: (i) BF Program; (ii) other programs under implementation by the 
MDS; and (iii) selected interventions to link BF Beneficiaries with other social inclusion 
and income generation programs at state level. 
 
Part E: Supporting the National Commitment for Social Development (CNDS)  
 
Provision of support, training, selected Incremental Operating Costs, and 
technical assistance to MDS to make operational the CNDS, including, inter alia: (a) the 
integration of programs and initiatives at the MDS in order to improve synergies and 
efficiency to better serve the population targeted by the CNDS; (b) support for the 
management and operationalization of CNDS through the establishment of protocols for 
its operation, and the design and implementation of information systems; (c) design and 
implementation of a strategy between the Borrower and the States to operate CNDS; (d) 
development of instruments to enhance the socio-economic insertion of individuals 
targeted by CNDS, including the carrying out of studies and evaluations; and (e) to 
extend the feasibility of actions implemented under the CNDS through increased 
technical capacity for the design and evaluation of projects, local and regional 
diagnostics, with the purpose of specifying the actions demanded. 
 
Part F:  Operational support to the PIU 
Provision of support to the PIU for the implementation of the Project, through the 
provision of services required therefore. 
 
9 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements   
 
Project Implementing Unit. The Borrower shall maintain in MDS, during the 
 
implementation of the Project, an organizational structure for Project 
 
implementation with functions and responsibilities set forth in the Operational 
 
Manual (the “PIU”), at all times headed by the Executive Secretary of MDS as its 
 
Project coordinator, and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, staff  
 
responsible for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the carrying out of 
 
the Project. 
 
B. 
Operational Manual 
 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual, 
 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), said manual to include, inter 
 
alia: 
 
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the Indicators) and the procurement and financial 
requirements thereof including the standard bidding documents to be 
used as per Section III. B. 2 of  Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the organizational structure for Project implementation; and 
 
(c) 
 the criteria for identification, registration and selection of BF 
Beneficiaries; the requirements to be fulfilled by BF Beneficiaries as 
conditions for the provision of BF Grants (which shall include those set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement); the mechanisms for verification 
of compliance with BF Grant conditions; and the detailed procedures for 
coordination and collaboration among the municipalities and other 
cooperating institutions, the Financial Institutions, and other stakeholders 
in the carrying out of the Project and the social provisions referred to in 
Section E below. 
 
 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
10 
 
C. 
Technical Reviews 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out technical reviews under terms of reference and 
periodicity to be proposed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank.  
 
2. 
After each of the preceding technical reviews, the Borrower shall afford the Bank 
the opportunity to exchange views on the results of such technical reviews and 
shall take all measures required to ensure the efficient execution of the Project 
and to achieve the Project’s objectives, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said technical reviews, and taking into account the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower, through MDS, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
E.  
Social Provisions 
 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through MDS, shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s Applicable Indigenous and 
Quilombolas Regulatory and Administrative Instruments as detailed in the 
Operational Manual.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Indicators. Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of 
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
11 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.   
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Procurement for the project will be carried out in accordance with the World 
Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated 
May 2004, revised October 2006 and May 2010; and “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004, revised 
October 2006 and May 2010, and the provisions stipulated herein. 
 
2. 
Goods.   All goods (including non-consultant services) required for the Project 
and to be financed under the Project out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
4. 
Contracts under the Project awarded in accordance with Section II of the 
Procurement Guidelines or the Consultant Guidelines may draw upon diverse 
sources of funding for their financing, necessarily including Loan proceeds. 
 
5. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods (including Non-consultant 
services) 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods (including non-consultant services) shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
 
 
12 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods (including non-consultant services). The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of “off the shelf” goods, and 
readily available non-consultants services the method known as “pregão eletrônico”, 
as provided in the Borrower’s Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002, and in Decree nº 
5450 of May 31, 2005 under “COMPRASNET”, the Borrower’s procurement portal, 
subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents 
shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
((b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods and services, pregão eletrônico set forth in 
the Borrower’s Law nº 10520, of July 17, 2002 and in Decree Nº 5450 of May 31, 
2005). 
((c) Direct Contracting. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(b) Quality-based Selection 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Fixed- Cost Selection 
(g) Individual Consultants  
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
13 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies: (a) the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be: (i) paid by the Borrower and reimbursed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
in respect of Part A of the Project; and (ii) financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
in respect of Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project; (b) the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category; and (c) the percentage of expenditures to 
be reimbursed in respect of Part A of the Project or financed in respect of Parts B, 
C, D, E and F of the Project  for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be reimbursed or financed 
(inclusive  of Taxes) 
 
(1) Non-consultant services, 
 
Consultant  services, 
 
Goods, Training, and 
 
Incremental Operating 
 
Costs for Parts B, C, D 
 
and E of the Project 
 
13,300,000 
 
47% 
(2) Non-Consultant services 
 
and Consultant services 
 
for  Part F of the Project 
 
1,200,000 
100% 
(3) BF Grant Transfers for 
 
Part A of the Project 
 
185,000,000 
 
1.85%   
of BF Grant Transfers  
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
200,000,000 
 
14 
For the purposes of this table: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ services) 
incurred in connection with the carrying out of training, seminars, and workshops 
under Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, including the reasonable travel cost and 
per-diem of the trainees; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures to finance travel 
costs and per-diem to carry out the activities in Parts B, C, D and E of the 
Project. 
 
(c) 
the term “Non-consultant services” means expenditures related to services of 
technical nature under Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project, which do not have 
an intellectual component, and that can be contracted solely on the basis of price, 
including air line tickets, logistic, printing, videos production and field 
researches. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,700,000 and 
$300,000 equivalent may be made for payments made within one year 
prior to this date but on or after November 13, 2009, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) respectively; or 
 
(b) 
for payments covered by Category (1) and (2), unless the CEL is formally 
established and staffed, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts disbursed by 
MDS to the BF Account as BF Grant Transfers were: (a) not used for BF Grants 
withdrawn by BF Beneficiaries; or (b) were made without compliance with the 
respective conditions and requirements for providing the BF Grants, the Borrower 
shall promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2015.  The Bank may grant an extension of 
the Closing Date only after the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has informed the 
Bank that it agrees with such extension. 
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15  
 
Beginning November 15, 2015 
 
through May 15, 2040  
 
2% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
16 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
17 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Requirements for Provision of BF Grants 
 
1. 
The amount of the BF Grants shall be:  
 
(a) 
for BF Beneficiaries with income under R$70, a fixed amount of R$68 
and a variable amount of R$22 per child aged 0 to 15, and R$33 per child 
aged 16-17 for a maximum of R$200; and 
 
(b) 
for BF Beneficiaries with income from R$70 through R$140, a variable 
amount of R$22 per child aged 0 to 15, and R$33 per child aged 16-17 
for a maximum amount of R$132. 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph 1, the requirements specified therein 
may be modified as provided under the BF Program legislation. 
 
2. 
To receive a BF Grant, the BF Beneficiary must comply with the following 
 
conditions, as shall be relevant for each such BF Beneficiary: 
 
 
(a) 
pregnant women must undertake the required pre-natal visits; 
 
(c) 
children aged 6 to 17 years must be enrolled in, and attend school; and 
 
 
(c) 
children aged 0 to 6 years must have vaccines up to date,  
 
all such conditions verified by the Borrower’s Ministries of Education and Health, and 
supervised and monitored by MDS. 
 
18 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“Applicable Indigenous and Quilombolas Regulatory and Administrative 
Instruments” means the instruments detailed in the Operational Manual, which 
provide the MDS’s framework for access and participation of Indigenous Peoples 
and Quilombolas in the Project.  
 
3. 
“BF Account” means the account operated by the Financial Institutions to deliver 
the BF Grants. 
 
4. 
“BF Grant Transfer” means the amount transferred, through a bank order (ordem 
bancária), by the Borrower to the BF Account as an advance to cover the costs of 
the BF Grants. 
 
 
5. 
“BF Law” means the Borrower’s Law No. 10836 of January 9, 2004, as 
amended. 
 
6. 
“Bolsa Familia Beneficiary” or “BF Beneficiary” means any of the families 
referred to in Part A of the Project. 
 
7. 
“Bolsa Familia Grant” or “BF Grant” means any of the grants to be provided 
under Part A of the Project. 
 
8. 
“Bolsa Familia Program” or “BF Program” means the Borrower’s program for 
the assistance to poor families through the provision of cash transfers conditional 
on compliance with conditions referred to in the BF Law or pre-existing 
legislation (which include those in Schedule 4 to this Agreement). 
 
9. 
“Cadastro Único” means the Borrower’s cadastre, established and operated 
under the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 6135 of June 26, 2007, as a single 
beneficiary database to service all cash transfer programs. 
 
10. 
“CEL” means Comissão Especial de Licitação, the special procurement 
commission to be established within the MDS. 
 
11. 
“CNDS” means Compromisso Nacional pelo Desenvolvimento Social, the 
national commitment for social development between the Borrower and States, 
established through the Borrower’s Decree No. 6393, dated March 12, 2008. 
19 
12. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
13. 
“Contest” means the contest of good practices on implementing BF by state and 
local authorities, carried out every year by the MDS.  
 
14. 
“Financial Institution” means any of the Borrower’s financial institutions or 
agents referred to in the BF Law which will release, as an agent of the Borrower, 
the BF Grants under Part A of the Project to the BF Beneficiaries. 
 
15. 
“First BF Project” means the project referred to in the WHEREAS clause (C) of 
this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences January 1. 
 
17. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
18. 
“Good Practices Observatory” means a data base administered by the MSD 
comprising good practices in implementing the BF Program by state and 
municipal governments.  
 
19. 
“Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
20. 
“Indigenous Peoples” means the indigenous peoples recognized as such by the 
Borrower’s Fundação Nacional do Indio, the National Indian Foundation 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 4645, dated March 26, 2003, as 
eligible to benefit from the constitutional and other legal protection of indigenous 
peoples. 
 
21. 
“MDS” means Ministério de Desenvolvimento Social e Combate a Fome, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Social Development and for the Eradication of Hunger. 
 
22. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, prepared for the First BF Project and updated for this Project 
to the date of this agreement.  
 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and in May 2010. 
 
20 
24. 
“PIU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
which was established for the First BF Project through the Borrower’s Portaria 
MDS no 13, dated October 27, 2005.  
 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 25, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
26. 
“Quilombolas” means the communities of African descendants referred to in 
Transitory Article 68 of the Borrower’s Constitution. 
 
27. 
“R$” means Real/Reais, the Borrower’s currency. 
 
28. 
“State” means any of the Borrower’s 26 states and its Federal District.  
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
21 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
 (b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III.  
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
22 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes: 
 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
