 
 
  
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8074-BR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Federal Integrated Water Sector Project –  
Programa de Desenvolvimento do Setor Água - Interáguas) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 15, 2011, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF 
BRAZIL (Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and seven million, 
three hundred thirty two thousand and five hundred Dollars ($107,332,500), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is: (a) on behalf of ANA, its Director President; (b) on behalf of MMA, 
the Minister of MMA; (c) on behalf of MI, the Minister of MI; (d) on behalf of 
Mcid, the Minister of Mcid. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
 
- 2 - 
 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection 
of the Borrower, through its Secretariat of the National Treasury, request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to 
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable 
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  
carry out Part 1 of the Project through MMA and ANA; 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
(b)  
carry out  Part 2 of the Project through MI; 
 
(c)  
carry out Part 3 of the Project through MCid; and  
 
(d)  
carry out Part 4 and Part 5 of the Project through ANA, MMA, MI and 
MCid (each within their respective area of autonomy and competence), 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the 
Comitê Gestor do Programa shall have ceased to exist or its functions and 
structure shall have been modified so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreement.  
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The regulations creating the Comitê Gestor do Programa and the Project 
Management Units have been issued and published in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted through a resolution 
(deliberação) issued by the Comitê Gestor do Programa and published 
by the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that that the Loan 
has been registered with the Borrower’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on January 11, 2013. 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria-Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "P" - 8º andar 
 
Brasília, DF, 70048-900 
 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3412-1740 
 
With copies to: 
 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
Brasília, DF, 70040-906 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006 
 
And to:  
 
Ministério do Meio Ambiente – MMA 
Secretaria Executiva 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco Bl. B - 6º andar 
Brasília, DF, 70068-900 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-61) 2028-1770/2015 
 
Ministério da Integração Nacional – MI 
Gabinete do Ministro 
Esplanada dos Ministérios Bl. E Sala 800 
Brasília, DF 70062-900 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3414-4268/5812 
 
Ministério das Cidades – Mcid 
Secretaria Executiva  
SAUS Quadra 01 Bloco H Ed. Telemundi II, 12º andar 
Brasília, DF, 70070-010 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-61) 2108-1420 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
Agência Nacional de Águas - ANA 
SPO, Área 05 Quadra 03 Bloco M 
Brasília, DF, 70610-200 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-61) 2109-5296 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By/s/ Ana Lucia Gatto de Oliveira 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By/s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower to improve the 
coordination, and strengthen the capacity, among key federal institutions in the water 
sector toward an integrated approach. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Water Resources Management 
 
Provision of support to the deployment of tools and instruments to SINGREH; 
enhance institutional development; reduce the disparities between the Borrower’s federal 
and states water management systems; identify actions to mitigate and adapt to climate 
change; streamline procedures; and establish criteria for ongoing monitoring and 
evaluation systems to increase efficiency and legal compliance of water resources 
guidelines and policies with the Borrower’s 1997 Water Law No. 9433 dated January 8, 
1997, which established the National Water Resources Policy, through:  
 
(i) 
the carrying out of the following planning and management activities: (A) 
assessing and supporting the modification of the legal framework for federal and state 
water resources; (B) strengthening of the National Water Resources Plan and state and 
river basin plans and agencies; (C) implementation and expansion of the water resources 
monitoring network; (D) promoting the enforcement of water rights and charges; (E) 
planning and implementation of a national program for water resources management 
training; (F) implementation of a results based management system for the National 
Water Resources Plan; and (G) technical support to integrated urban water management 
including solid waste and management models; 
 
(ii) 
the carrying out of the following studies to:(A) verify feasibility of water 
projects; (B) monitor and assess groundwater potential; (C) implement demonstration 
projects for water resource conservation and reuse, and rehabilitation plans; (D) prevent 
and control of critical events including climate change; (E) develop hydrographic 
mapping; (F) develop and modernize a water users and infrastructure registry; (G) 
address topics such as the relationship between environmental degradation, 
desertification, water resources, technologies for efficient water use, and impacts of 
climate change on water resource availability, and influence of global macroeconomic 
dynamics on water resources; and (H) development of financial mechanisms and tools for 
environmental and water management, including solid waste; and 
 
(iii) 
the carrying out of the following institutional development activities: (A) training 
and strengthening of water resources management agencies, including water user 
associations and water boards; (B) development and implementation of: (1) education 
and social mobilization campaigns, and (2) communication and dissemination programs; 
 
- 7 - 
 
(C) monitoring and improvement of SINGREH’s institutions capacity; (D) enhancement 
of economic and financial sustainability of water resources management and water 
resources policies and funding; (E) support to south-south cooperation in the water 
sector; and (F) strengthening of urban, environmental and water institutions.  
 
Part 2. Water, Irrigation and Disaster Risk Management 
 
Provision of support for institutional strengthening to improve water 
infrastructure, irrigation and SINDEC activities, and to raise the overall assessment 
capacity of strategic existing water infrastructure and disaster risk management capacity, 
including floods and droughts and other hazards, through: 
 
(i) 
the carrying out of the following planning and management activities: (A) 
assessment of federal and state water infrastructure plans in the Northeast Region; (B) 
development of criteria for selecting water infrastructure projects; (C) preparation of state 
and national irrigation plans with incentives to optimize irrigation systems; (D) creation 
of a risk management information system; (E) development of a risk management plan, 
including risk identification, monitoring and early warning systems, and emergency 
response plans; (F) development of information systems for water infrastructure; and (G) 
increase of strategic planning for drought risk reduction and climate change; 
 
(ii) 
the carrying out of the following studies to: (A) verify the technical, economic, 
social, financial, and environmental feasibility of water infrastructure activities; (B) 
prepare water infrastructure management, operation and maintenance plans; (C) assess 
existing water infrastructure; (D) develop dam safety plans; (E) promote social 
participation; (F) develop plans for improvement of irrigation activities; (G) support the 
implementation of the National Irrigation Policy; and (H) support disaster risk 
management; and  
 
(iii) 
the carrying out of the following institutional development activities: (A) 
provision of technical support and capacity building to federal and state agencies to 
enhance performance in water infrastructure, irrigation, and risk management areas; (B) 
provision of technical assistance to implement: (1)  water infrastructure management and 
monitoring systems; (2) management plans for public irrigation projects; and (3) training 
for irrigation user organizations; (C) acquisition and/or development of computer 
programs for administration and management; (D) preparation of technical and 
operational  manuals for water infrastructure, irrigation and disaster risk management; 
and (E) support to irrigation, water infrastructure and SINDEC agencies. 
 
Part 3: Water Supply and Sanitation 
 
Provision of support to the implementation of the Borrower’s 2007 National 
Sanitation Law No. 11445, the improvement of the quality of the provision of water 
supply and basic sanitation services and contribution to promote universal access to these 
services through: 
 
- 8 - 
 
(i) 
the carrying out of the following planning and management activities: (A) 
support to the implementation of the National Basic Sanitation Guidelines and of 
SINISA; (B) assessment of PAC investments in water supply and basic sanitation 
infrastructure; (C) development of a national technical cooperation in the water supply 
and basic sanitation areas; (D) development and expansion of a training, research and 
technology national network in water supply and basic sanitation (E) preparation of local 
and regional water supply and basic sanitation plans for states and municipalities; and (F) 
review and evaluation of programs and actions included in PPA and PAC; 
 
(ii) 
the carrying out of the following studies to: (A) improve the assessment capacity 
on  technical, economic, financial, policy, institutional and management matters; (B) 
contribute to the monitoring and evaluation of public policies; (C) improve “COM + 
ÁGUA” Project; (D) expand the Integrated Management System for Water Supply and 
Sanitation; (E) integrate, expand, and upgrade PMSS systems; (E) expand integrated 
water supply and basic sanitation services technology in slum areas; (F) adopt clean 
development mechanisms for water supply and basic sanitation; and (G)  disseminate 
technology; and 
 
(iii) 
the carrying out of the following institutional development activities: (A) support 
to the integration of PAC-financed projects and institutional development of services 
providers; (B) provision of technical assistance to states, municipalities, regulators, and 
service providers for sector modernization; (C) incentive to associated management of 
water supply and basic sanitation services; (D) development of local or regional water 
supply and basic sanitation plans; (E) support, development and dissemination of 
transparency instruments and promotion of social participation; and (F) review of water 
supply and basic sanitation environmental licensing regulations. 
 
Part 4: Intersectoral Coordination and Integrated Planning  
Provision of support to integrated planning; identification of areas of mutual 
interest, overlap, or conflict in the sectoral plans which impact and/or depend upon water; 
carrying out of studies and institutional improvements involving multiple sectors, and 
support to water management and conservation measures preferentially in the São 
Francisco and the Araguaia-Tocantins river basins, through: 
 
(i) 
the carrying out of the following planning and management activities: (A) 
improvement of water management and use associated with the Integration Project in the 
São Francisco River Basin; (B) integration of planning and regulation in the water 
resources and water supply and basic sanitation sectors and in the energy and navigation 
sectors; (C) implementation of methods to integrate river basin environmental assessment 
for planning in the hydroelectric, river navigation and water supply and sanitation sectors 
at the state and municipality level; and (D) development and implementation of systems 
and methodologies to monitor and evaluate policies and public investments in the water 
sector; 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
(ii) 
the carrying out of the following studies to: (A) evaluate alternatives to integrate 
procedures for water rights, emission of environmental licenses, environmental planning, 
and provision of public services; (B) rehabilitate river basins; (C) improve energy 
efficiency; (D) develop water conservation and reuse projects; (E) promote efficiency 
technologies and develop a methodology for certification of the proper use of water in 
irrigated agriculture; (F) control and measure water quality; (G) create clean development 
mechanisms; (H) assess and develop payment for environmental services; (I) systematize 
the database of existing engineering designs and works; and (J) identify projects to 
encourage rational and efficient water use; and 
 
(iii) 
the carrying out of the following institutional development activities:(A) 
coordination of methods, evaluation systems, and decision support in sectors where water 
resources are fundamental inputs; (B) coordination and communication among sector 
information systems; (C) support to the establishment of permanent mechanisms and 
structures for articulation and coordination of federal government actions in the water 
sector; and (D) training of federal, state and municipality water professionals on Project 
related activities. 
 
Part 5: Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation  
Provision of support to: (i) the management of the operational aspects of the 
Project in order to coordinate, monitor, and evaluate all of the interventions undertaken to 
ensure that they meet the targets, timetables, and objectives originally specified and to 
ensure overall efficient administration including reporting, financial management, and 
auditing of the Project; and (ii) the effective transfer of knowledge and the use of best 
practices at the subnational level including a strong communication program, through, 
inter alia, workshops and seminars to inform the relevant stakeholders at the river basin, 
municipal, state, and federal levels.  
 
 
 
- 10 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through ANA, MMA, MI and MCid (each within their 
respective area of autonomy and competence), carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, including the Procurement Plan, the 
Annual Operating Plans, the Environmental Management Framework and the 
Social Framework, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend 
or waive any provision of these documents without the Bank’s prior written 
approval.  In case of any conflict between the terms of said documents and those 
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the 
execution of the Project, an interministerial management committee (the Comitê 
Gestor do Programa) to convene at least once every semester, and shall submit 
the minutes of said meetings to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, until the 
completion of the execution of the Project, Project management units (the 
Project Management Units) physically located in ANA, MMA, MI and MCid, all 
with competent staff in adequate numbers with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank and selected in accordance, as applicable, with the 
provisions of Section III of this Schedule, including in each of said units the 
following key staff: a Project coordinator, a technical manager, a financial 
management specialist, a procurement specialist, and whenever necessary a 
social safeguard specialist and an environmental safeguard specialist. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall establish no later than three months after the establishment 
of the Comitê Gestor do Programa and thereafter maintain, until the completion 
of the execution of the Project, a Project technical Secretariat for the Comitê 
Gestor do Programa (the Project Technical Secretariat), to be physically located 
in ANA, and in charge of overall Project coordination, including all intersectoral 
activities as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, at least once a year during Project implementation on or 
about December 1, commencing on the first such date after the Effective Date, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan, acceptable to the Bank (the Annual 
Operating Plan for the Project’s operation during the following twelve months). 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
6. 
For purposes of carrying out its procurement obligations under the Project, the 
Borrower, through ANA, MMA, MI and MCid (each within their respective area 
of autonomy and competence) may enter into an agreement with an entity with 
qualifications and procurement experience acceptable to the Bank, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Procurement Agent Agreement), 
which shall include, inter alia: (a) the obligation of the Procurement Agent (on 
behalf of the Borrower): (A) to carry out the procurement of certain goods, 
consultants’ services and Services (other than Consultants’ Services) under the 
Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section III of this Schedule 
and in the Operational Manual ; and (B) to keep separate records and accounts in 
respect of such goods, consultants’ services and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services) and to assist the Borrower in complying with its 
obligations under this Agreement; (b) the obligation of the Borrower: (A) to 
transfer directly to the Procurement Agent the proceeds of the Loan allocated to 
Category (1) as required by the Procurement Agent to effect the payments for 
goods, consultants’ services and Services (other than Consultants’ Services) 
under the Project; (B) to transfer to the Procurement Agent the Project 
counterpart funds (i.e., non-Loan funds) as required for the Procurement Agent 
to effect the payments for goods, consultants’ services and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services) under the Project; and (C) to pay any administrative fees 
due to the Procurement Agent under the Procurement Agent Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
C. 
Cooperation Agreements  
 
1. 
The Borrower, through ANA, MMA, MI or MCid, shall, prior to carrying out any 
Project activity which requires the assistance of a Participating Entity (as 
determined by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual), enter into an agreement (the Cooperation Agreement) with the relevant 
Participating Entity under terms and conditions approved by the Bank as further 
specified in the Operational Manual for purposes of assisting ANA, MMA, MI or 
MCid in the implementation of the respective Parts of the Project under their 
responsibility, and thereafter maintain the pertinent Cooperation Agreement 
throughout the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower, through ANA, MMA, MI or MCid, shall exercise its rights and 
carry out its obligations under each Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any 
Cooperation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
- 12 - 
 
D. 
Safeguards 
- 
Environmental Management Framework 
and 
Social 
Framework  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Management Units: (a) implement the 
Project in accordance with the Environmental Management Famework (including 
provisions for environmental assessment, natural habitats, pest management, 
forests, chance finding of cultural property and safety of dams) and the Social 
Management Framework (including provisions for indigenous peoples and 
involuntary resettlement); and (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said 
Environmental Management Framework and Social Management Framework for 
environmental and social screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring 
of the Project.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, through, ANA, MMA, MI or MCid, shall ensure, and/or cause the 
Participating Entities to ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in 
respect of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its 
review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the 
requirements of the Bank Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the 
advice conveyed through such technical assistance. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through each Project Management Unit, shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Project Technical Secretariat to be consolidated and furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, ANA, MMA, MI 
and MCid shall prepare and furnish to the Project Technical Secretariat interim 
 
- 13 - 
 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be consolidated and sent to the 
Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar quarter. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, and Services (Other than Consultants’ Services).  All goods and 
services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services)  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services).  The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods and services (other than consultants’ services). The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional procedure, 
namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank as well as 
procurement in accordance with the method known as “pregão eletrônico”, as 
provided in the  Borrower’s  Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002, and in Decree No. 
5450 of May 31, 2005, under COMPRASNET (the Borrower’s procurement portal 
or any other e-procurement system approved by the Bank), subject to the following 
additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the 
Bank. 
(b) Shopping including in respect of goods and services, pregão eletrônico set forth in 
Borrower’s Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002, and in Decree No. 5450 of May 31, 
2005. 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-Source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in 
paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods,  Consultants’ 
Services, Services 
(Other than Consultants’ 
Services) Training and 
Operating Costs for the 
Project  
 
107,064,168 
 
 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
 
      268,332 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(3) Premium for Interest 
Rate Caps and Collars 
              0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
107,332,500 
 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this table: 
(a)  
the term “Operating Costs” means the operational costs (which would 
not have occurred absent the Project, including, inter alia, equipment and 
computer maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and rent for office 
facilities) and the supervision and monitoring costs of the Project 
incurred by the Project Management Units, the Comitê Gestor do 
 
- 16 - 
 
Programa and the Project Technical Secretariat under the Project 
(including, inter alia, travel, per diem, accommodation, operation and 
maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel, spare parts and insurance, 
maintenance of the monitoring and information system, supervisory and 
quality control activities, but excluding expenditures for civil servant 
salaries and related benefits);  
(b)  
the term “Training” means the costs, which would not have occurred 
absent the Project, including, inter alia, information workshops, study 
tours, and training programs, equipment required for training purposes 
and the travel, per diem and accommodation costs for technical staff of 
the Project Management Units, but excluding expenditures for civil 
servant  salaries and related benefits; and 
(c)  
the term “Services (other than Consultants’ Services)” means the costs of 
services which are not consultants’ services, including, inter alia, the 
costs of surveys, data collection and processing, printing services, 
publications and dissemination activities and travel agencies services.  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,733,250 equivalent 
may be made for payments made within twelve months prior to such date for 
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. The Bank shall only grant an extension 
of the Closing Date after the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has informed the 
Bank that it agrees with such extension.  
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
By July 31, 2014, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower shall: 
1. 
carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of the 
Project (Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project; and 
2. 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be agreed between the Borrower and Bank.  
 
 
- 17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 1 and December 1 
 
Beginning December 1, 2016  
 
through June 1, 2041 
 
2% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
- 18 - 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
- 19 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“ANA” means Agência Nacional de Águas, the Borrower’s National Water 
Agency, as existing and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 9984, dated 
July 17, 2000, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
“Annual Operating Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section I.A.5 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which shall contain the activities to be 
implemented during the Borrower’s fiscal year with the respective resources and 
in accordance with the Borrower’s annual budgetary law. 
3. 
 “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011. 
4. 
 “Bank Safeguards Policies” means  the Bank’s operational policies and 
procedures set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under 
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual. 
5. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“COM + ÁGUA Project” means the Borrower’s main initiative under the PMSS, 
whose objective is to prevent water losses and promoting the efficient use of 
electric energy in water supply systems by proposing integrated and participatory 
management and social mobilization. 
7. 
“Comitê Gestor do Programa” means the interministerial committee referred to 
in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in charge of overall 
coordination for the Project as further detailed in the Operational Manual. 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006, and May 2010. 
9. 
 “Cooperation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
 “Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s framework 
dated August, 2010, acceptable to the Bank (included in the Operational 
Manual), and  published and available to the public on the website 
 
- 20 - 
 
http://interaguas.ana.gov.br which contains, inter alia, the environmental 
principles and policies that shall apply to the implementation of the Project. 
 
11. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
12. 
“Integrated Management System for Water Supply and Sanitation - GSAN” 
means the Borrower’s main initiative under the PMSS, whose objective is to 
make commercial and operational management of water supply and basic 
sanitation services through a public and open software. 
 
13. 
“Integration Project in the São Francisco River Basin” means the Borrower’s 
initiative for integrating the São Francisco River Basin with basins in the States 
of Ceará, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraíba and Pernambuco. 
 
14. 
“MCid” means Ministério das Cidades, the Borrower’s Ministry for Cities, or 
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
15. 
“MI” means Ministério da Integração Nacional, the Borrower’s Ministry for 
National Integration, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
16. 
“MMA” means Ministério do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower’s Ministry for 
Environment, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
17. 
“National Basic Sanitation Guidelines” means the Borrower’s national water 
supply, wastewater, urban drainage and solid waste management guidelines as 
established under the Borrower’s Law No. 11445 dated January 5, 2007. 
 
18. 
 “National Irrigation Policy” means the Borrower’s national irrigation policy as 
established under the Borrower’s Law No. 6662, dated 1979, as amended. 
 
19. 
“National Water Resources Plan” means a planning instrument approved by the 
Borrower’s National Council of Water Resources for the water resource sector 
established under the Council’s Resolution No. 58 dated January 30, 2006. 
 
20. 
“National Water Resources Policy” means the Borrower’s national water 
resource policy as established under the Borrower’s Law No. 9433 dated January 
8, 1997. 
 
21. 
“Northeast Region” means a geographic region in the Borrower’s territory that 
comprises the following States: Alagoas, Bahia, Ceará, Maranhão, Paraíba, 
Pernambuco, Piauí, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe. 
 
22. 
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower through a resolution of the Comitê 
 
- 21 - 
 
Gestor do Programa, which manual shall contain, inter alia: (i) the terms of 
reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of: (A) the Project 
Implementation Units; (B) the Project Technical Secretariat; and (C) the Comitê 
Gestor do Programa; (ii) the procedures for procurement of goods, consultants’ 
services and services (other than Consultants’ Services) for the Project, as well as 
for financial management and procurement audits of the Project; (iii) flow and 
disbursement arrangements of Project funds; (iv) the Annual Operating Plan for 
the first year of the Project; and (v) the Environmental Management Framework 
and the Social Management Framework. 
 
23. 
“PAC” means Programa de Aceleração do Crescimento, the Borrower’s growth 
acceleration program as established under the Borrower’s Law No. 11578 dated 
November 26, 2007. 
 
24. 
“Participating Entity” means any federal, state and municipal institution, river 
basin agencies and water and basic sanitation service providers that have 
requested support from the Project and demonstrated a strong commitment to 
advance reforms and improve performance in the water sector in the Borrower’s 
territory. 
 
25. 
“PMSS” means the Borrower’s Water Sector Modernization Program (PMSS), 
which provides technical assistance to the actions of the National Secretariat of 
Sanitation under the MCid. 
 
26. 
“PPA” means the Borrower’s Multiyear Plan, which is approved by the Congress 
every four years, including programs to be implemented over the following four 
years. 
 
27. 
“Procurement Agent” means the procurement agent referred to in Section I.A.6 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
28. 
“Procurement Agent Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
I.A.6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
29. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006, and May 2010. 
 
30. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 21, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
31. 
“Project Management Units” means the four management units referred to in 
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
- 22 - 
 
 
32. 
“Project Technical Secretariat” means the secretariat within ANA referred to in 
Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in charge of serving as a technical 
secretariat to the Comitê Gestor do Programa. 
 
33. 
“SINDEC” means Sistema Nacional de Defesa Civil, the Borrower’s system that 
coordinates and plans the national disaster risk management activities, as 
established under the Borrower’s Law No.12340, dated September 1, 2010.  
 
34. 
SINGREH means Sistema Nacional de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos, the 
Borrower’s national system of water resources management as established under 
the Borrower’s Law No. 9433, dated January 8, 1997. 
 
35. 
“SINISA” means Sistema Nacional de Informações em Saneamento Básico, the 
Borrower’s national information system on water supply and basic sanitation as 
established under the Borrower’s Law No. 11445, dated January 5, 2007. 
 
36. 
“Social Management Framework” means the Borrower’s framework dated 
September, 2010, acceptable to the Bank (included in the Operational Manual), 
and 
 
published 
and 
available 
to 
the 
public 
on 
the 
website 
http://interaguas.ana.gov.br which contains, inter alia, the social principles and 
policies that shall apply to the implementation of the Project. 
 
  
  
 
