 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7991-AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Norte Grande Road Infrastructure Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the 
Loan 
Agreement), 
between 
ARGENTINE 
REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million Dollars 
($400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower, through MPF, declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project. To this end, the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall carry out the 
Project with the assistance of the Participating Provinces pursuant to the 
provisions of the pertinent Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreements 
and the Annual Operating Plans, all in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE IV —EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
at least one of the Participating Provinces has entered into a Participation, 
Transfer and Maintenance Agreement with the Borrower. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of, namely, that the Participation, Transfer 
and Maintenance Agreement to be entered into as per the condition set forth in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower, through MFP, and the corresponding Participating Province, and once 
executed, will become legally binding upon the Borrower and said Participating 
Province in accordance with its terms. 
 
4.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire 
on June 20, 2012.  
 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires 
Argentina  
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
MINISTERIO   
 
DE ECONOMIA 
121942-AR 
 
(5411) 4349-8815 
Baires  
 
 
 
 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Bank on April 11, 2011, and on 
behalf of the Borrower on May 4, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Amado Boudou 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Penelope J. Brook 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce transport costs for users of provincial 
roads along selected corridors of the provinces of the Norte Grande region, through the 
improvement of the quality of those roads and the introduction of improved road asset 
management tools and methods. 
  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Rehabilitation, Upgrading and Reconstruction of Provincial Roads 
 
 
Carrying out of rehabilitation, upgrading and reconstruction civil works through 
the realization of Subprojects (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, paving and/or 
asphalt concrete overlaying, as the case may be, including associated shoulder, sidewalks, 
drainage, masonry, signage, lighting and ancillary works plus road safety improvements) 
under the jurisdiction of Participating Provinces in the Norte Grande region. 
Part B:  Institutional Development and Project Management 
 
1. 
Provision of support to strengthen the institutional capacity of DPVs, and 
improve their investment planning and management capabilities through the carrying out 
of eligible activities that may include, inter alia: (a) the acquisition of road data 
collection equipment, computers and software, traffic equipment, weights, and related 
training; (b) building or updating of DPV websites; (c) the setting up of GIS-based 
transport observatories; (d) preparation of multi-annual road maintenance plans and 
annual performance reports; (e) preparation of revised design standards documents; (f) 
technical assistance to review institutional framework, management and financing of 
provincial roads, current maintenance practices, and recommendations for their 
improvement; (g) provision of non-consulting services for data collection; and (h) 
technical assistance and training to provincial staff on social, environmental, and 
fiduciary aspects of project implementation. 
 
2. 
Provision of support and strengthening of the operational, social and 
environmental supervision capacities of UCPyPFE, UCPyPFE-UEP and Participating 
Provinces to carry out its functions and responsibilities under the Project (including 
Project audits) through, inter alia, the provision of tailored technical assistance and 
training in the preparation of potential road and institutional strengthening investments, 
including the preparation of related feasibility studies, project designs, economic impact 
studies, social and environmental impact assessments, and sector strategic studies. 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MPF, shall operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, a Project implementation unit organized within 
UCPyPFE, (the “UCPyPFE-UEP”) with the structure, functions and 
responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual, which shall include, inter 
alia, the responsibility to carry out the Project (and assist the UCPyPFE in the 
coordination, monitoring and supervision of the Project). 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MPF, shall ensure that UCPyPFE-UEP is, at all times 
during Project implementation, assisted by professional staff (including, inter 
alia, a Project coordinator, a financial management specialist, a procurement 
specialist, an environmental specialist, a social specialist and a monitoring and 
evaluation specialist) and administrative staff, all in numbers and with terms of 
reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
B. 
Manuals 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual) and the pertinent 
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework (including 
the EMPs, the RPF, the IPPF and the Chaco IPP, as determined by the Bank); 
and (ii) cause the pertinent Participating Provinces (as the case may be) to 
comply with the pertinent provisions of the Operational Manual and the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (including the EMPs, the 
RPF, the IPPF and the Chaco IPP, as determined by the Bank) in connection with 
their participation in the carrying out of Subprojects. 
 
2.  
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual, the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Implementation Agreements 
 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out any given Subproject, and prior to the carrying out 
of any of the works or Project activities under the pertinent Subproject, the 
Borrower, through MPF (through UCPyPFE), shall enter into an agreement (the 
Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement) with the corresponding 
- 7 - 
Participating Province, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which 
shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
  
2.  
The Borrower, through MPF (through UCPyPFE), shall exercise its rights and 
carry out its obligations under each Participation, Transfer and Maintenance 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, 
waive or fail to enforce any Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement 
or any of its provisions. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
 
E. 
Safeguards   
 
1. 
Upon the selection of any given Subproject and prior to the carrying out of the 
pertinent works under said Subproject, the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, 
shall: (a) carry out and/or cause to be carried out an environmental/social 
assessment of the pertinent works, and based on the results of said assessment as 
determined by the Bank, approve and/or cause to be approved an 
environmental/social management plan or similar environmental or social 
safeguards instrument, acceptable to the Bank, for each said works (which plan 
or similar environmental/social safeguards instrument shall be based on the 
results of the environmental/social assessment mentioned herein, and the Bank’s 
comments on the results of said assessment, if any), all in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework; and (b) 
immediately after said approval, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as 
the case may be) the corresponding environmental/social management plan (or 
similar environmental/social safeguards instrument) in accordance with its terms, 
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of this Agreement in respect of 
Subprojects, the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall: (a) upon the definition 
of the precise sitting alignments, and prior to the carrying out of any works, if 
applicable as determined by the Bank, update/adjust or cause to be 
updated/adjusted (as the case may be) the existing pertinent environmental 
impact assessment for the corresponding Subproject under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank; (b) based on said updated/adjusted environmental impact 
assessment, and if determined by the Bank, update/adjust or  cause to be 
updated/adjusted (as the case may be) the pertinent existing environmental 
management plan; and (c) thereafter, implement and/or cause to be implemented, 
the existing pertinent environmental management plan or the updated/adjusted 
- 8 - 
environmental management plan (as the case may be), all in accordance with its 
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.   
 
3. 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of this Agreement in respect of any 
given Subproject in which works are involved, and if as a result of the definition 
of the precise sitting alignments it is determined by the Bank that Resettlement 
will be involved, the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall: (a) prior to the 
carrying out of any said works, prepare and/or cause to be prepared and furnish 
to the Bank, a resettlement plan, acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall be 
consistent with the pertinent provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework); 
and (b) thereafter, implement and/or cause to be implemented, said resettlement 
plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.   
 
4. 
With respect to the carrying out of any given Subproject and when so determined 
by the Bank as set forth in the IPPF and the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall: (a) prior 
to the carrying out of any said Subproject, prepare and/or cause to be prepared 
and furnish to the Bank, an Indigenous Peoples’ Plan, acceptable to the Bank 
(which plan shall be consistent with the pertinent provisions of the IPPF); and (b) 
thereafter, adopt and implement (and/or cause to be adopted and implemented) 
said Indigenous Peoples’ Plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
5. 
Without limitation to the provisions of this Section, the Borrower, through 
UCPyPFE-UEP, shall ensure that the Identified Subprojects are carried out in 
accordance with their respective EMPs. 
 
6. 
Without limitation to the provisions of this Section, the Borrower, through 
UCPyPFE-UEP, shall ensure that the Chaco Identified Subproject is carried out 
in accordance with the Chaco IPP. 
 
F. 
Other Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall, not later than six months after the 
Effective Date, establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, a web page for purposes of disseminating Project 
information (as determined by the Bank), all acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall ensure, and/or cause the 
Participating Provinces to ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy 
in respect  of any Project activity under Parts B.1 (d), (e) and (h), and B.2 of the 
Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that 
end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank 
Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such 
technical assistance.  
- 9 - 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of Project indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as 
part of the Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering a semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall have its Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period.  
 
4. 
The Borrower, through MPF, shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar 
year during Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout 
each said calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in 
the national annual budget (starting in calendar year 2011) in order to keep track 
of the corresponding expenditures incurred during Project implementation. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-
consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
- 10 - 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to the other provisions in Section III.A of 
this Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the 
procurement of goods, works, Non-consultant Services and consultants’ services 
under the Project (as the case may be): 
 
 
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, Non-consultant Services and consultants’ 
services (in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) standard 
bidding documents (which bidding documents in respect of works shall 
include, if applicable, a provision whereby the pertinent contractor must 
comply with the pertinent provisions of: (A) the Environmental and 
Social 
Management 
Framework; 
and 
(B) 
the 
corresponding 
environmental management plan, a resettlement plan, and/or an 
indigenous 
peoples’ 
plan 
(including 
the 
provisions 
of 
any 
updated/adjusted version) or similar safeguards instrument referred to in 
Sections I.E.1 through I.E.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in respect 
of 
the 
relevant 
Subproject) 
and 
standard 
requests 
for 
quotations/proposals (as the case may be), all acceptable to the Bank, 
which shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision and 
the pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) model bid 
evaluation forms, and model quotations/proposals evaluation forms (as 
the case may be); and (iii) model contract forms, all acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
 
(b) 
all contracts for works to be procured under the Project shall contain a 
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said 
contract shall be adjusted through the use of price adjustment formulas, 
in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
 
 
(c) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the 
procurement of goods, works and Non-consultant Services;  
 
 
(d)     
after the public opening of bids for goods, works and Non-consultant 
Services, information relating to the examination, clarification and 
evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall not be 
disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this 
- 11 - 
process until the publication of contract award. In addition, bidders 
and/or other persons not officially concerned with said process shall not 
be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids; 
 
 
(e) 
after the public opening of consultants’ proposals, information relating to 
the examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and 
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to 
consultants or other persons not officially concerned with this process 
until the publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 
2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). In addition, consultants 
and/or other persons not officially concerned with said process shall not 
be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants’ proposals; 
 
 
(f)    
foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for 
submitting bids or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to 
be registered in Argentina (except as provided in the standard bidding 
documents referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) above); (ii) be required to 
have a representative in Argentina; and (iii) be required to be associated 
or subcontract with Argentine suppliers, contractors or consultants; 
 
 
(g)  
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, 
requests for expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the 
evaluation reports of bids and proposals of all goods, works, Non-
consultant Services and consultants’ services procured by the Borrower, 
through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall be published in the web page of the 
Borrower’s Office of National Procurement (Oficina Nacional de 
Contrataciones), and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding 
period shall be counted from the date of publication of the invitation to 
bid or the date of the availability of the bidding documents, whichever is 
later, to the date of bid opening;  
 
 
(h) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 
2.59 of the Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts 
for goods, works and Non-Consultant Services to be procured under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures; 
 
 
(i) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be 
used by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, in determining if the 
bidder in respect of goods whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry 
out the contract as offered in the bid, as referred to in the provision set 
forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. The provision set 
forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the 
limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods 
to be procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures;  
- 12 - 
 
 
(j) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid 
rejection or contract award; 
 
 
(k) 
the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall: (i) supply the SEPA with 
the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days 
after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the 
Procurement Plan at least every three months, or as required by the Bank, 
to reflect the actual project implementation needs and progress and shall 
supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated 
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; 
 
 
(l) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement 
Guidelines providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in 
respect of contracts for goods to be procured under International 
Competitive Bidding procedures;  
 
 
(m) 
compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any 
given good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for 
contract award; 
 
 
(n) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities;  
 
 
(o) 
contracts of goods, works and Non-consultant Services shall not be 
awarded to the “most convenient” bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid 
has been determined: (i) to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer 
the lowest evaluated bid, provided that said bidder has demonstrated to 
the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, to be qualified to perform the 
contract satisfactorily; and 
 
(p) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be the only types of contracts to be used by the 
Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, in connection with the contracting of 
consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Non-consultant Services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
- 13 - 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
Services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Non-consultant Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Direct Contracting 
(c) Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Quality-Based Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
- 14 - 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
 
(1)  Works under 
 
Subprojects 
 
 
365,000,000 
 
80% 
 
(2) Goods, consultants’ 
 
services, Non-consultant 
 
Services, Training and 
 
Operating Costs 
 
34,000,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
1,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
 
0 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
$400,000,000 
 
 
3. 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-
UEP, as approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual budget 
acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per 
diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, 
training materials, and rental of training facilities and equipment under 
the Project; and 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
(b) 
“Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an 
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have 
been incurred by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, absent the 
Project, for Project administration (including office rent), operation and 
maintenance of office equipment, non-durable goods and salaries for 
non-professional staff assigned to UCPyPFE and UCPyPFE-UEP to 
carry out administrative (e.g. secretarial) responsibilities under the 
Project (but excluding any type of civil servant salaries). 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made prior to the Signature Date but on or after October 1, 2010 (but in 
no case more than one year prior to the Signature Date) for Eligible Expenditures 
for Categories (1) and (2), if the pertinent obligations set forth in this Agreement, 
as applicable to each Eligible Expenditure, have been complied with. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
 
- 16 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2018  
 
through September 15, 2036 
 
2.56% 
On March 15, 2037 
2.72% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
- 17 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
- 18 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Terms and Conditions of the Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreements 
 
Each Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement shall contain, inter 
alia, the following provisions: 
 
1. 
The obligation of the Borrower, through MPF (through UCPyPFE-UEP), to carry 
out each Subproject in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this 
Agreement.  
 
2. 
The right of the Borrower, through MPF (through UCPyPFE-UEP), to take 
remedial actions against the pertinent Participating Province (as the case may be) 
in case the Participating Province shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the corresponding Participation, Transfer and Maintenance 
Agreement (which actions shall have been previously agreed with the Bank).   
 
3. 
The obligation of the Participating Province: 
 
(i) 
to assist the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, in the carrying out of the 
pertinent Subproject in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this 
Agreement, including technical, financial, administrative, environmental 
and fiduciary standards acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
if applicable as determined by the Bank, to comply with the provisions of 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the Resettlement 
Policy Framework and the IPPF, and adopt and undertake the obligation 
of preparing and/or carrying out the pertinent EMPs, IPPs, resettlement 
plans (as referred to in Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) or 
similar safeguards acceptable instruments, as applicable, in accordance 
with their terms and those of this Agreement and the Operational 
Manual; 
 
(iii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Subproject is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by for example, 
allowing Bank inspection and audit rights under paragraph 9 (d) of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines); 
 
(iv) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through 
UCPyPFE-UEP, to comply with its obligations referred to in this 
Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent Subproject;  
 
(v) 
to cause the corresponding DPV to inspect, when applicable, the 
corresponding Subproject,  in accordance with the pertinent provisions of 
this Agreement and the Operational Manual; 
- 19 - 
(vi) 
upon satisfactory completion of the pertinent Subproject, as determined 
by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, and the Bank, to operate and 
maintain said Subproject with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
accordance with adequate technical, social and environmental standards; 
and 
 
(vii)  
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement or any provision 
thereof unless previously agreed by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-
UEP and the Bank. 
- 20 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Operating Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, prepared through 
UCPyPFE-UEP, on an annual basis, setting forth the planning of Project 
activities for each year of Project implementation. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Bank Safeguards Policies” means  the Bank’s operational policies and 
procedures set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under 
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Chaco Identified Subproject” means the Subproject in the Province of Chaco: 
Provincial Road: RP No. 3, Pampa del Indio – Villa Río Bermejito (59.45 km). 
 
6. 
“Chaco Indigenous Peoples’ Plan” or “Chaco IPP” means the Borrower’s plan 
dated November 15, 2010, setting forth the indigenous peoples policy actions 
applicable to the activities to be carried out under the Subproject Province of 
Chaco: Provincial Road: RP No. 3, Pampa del Indio – Villa Río Bermejito (59.45 
km). 
 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
8. 
“DPV” means Dirección Provincial de Vialidad, or Provincial Road Department, 
which may or may not be vested with legal personality, or any other entity 
(which may or may not be vested with legal personality) with similar functions 
and responsibilities, all within the administrative jurisdiction of a Participating 
Province. 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plans” or “EMPs” means any of the following 
Borrower documents, all dated November 8, 2010: (a) Plan “RP No. 3, Pampa 
del Indio – Villa Río Bermejito”; (b) Plan “RP No. 304, Los Gutiérrez – Rio 
Urueña”; and (c) Plan “RP No. 94, Santo Tomé – Arroyo Chimiray”, setting forth 
the environmental management actions applicable to activities to be carried out 
- 21 - 
under the Identified Subprojects; and/or (d) any of the plans or 
environmental/social instruments, acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Sections 
I.E.1 and I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
10. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
Borrower’s framework, dated November 15, 2010, (included in the Operational 
Manual) which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the guidelines for updating/adjusting the 
environmental assessments and/or environmental management plans referred to 
in Sections I.E.1 and I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) the guidelines for 
carrying out the environmental assessments referred to in Sections I.E.1 and 
1.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iii) the EMPs; (iv) the generic 
description of the type of environmental impacts which may affect Subprojects 
and the actions to mitigate any negative impacts that may occur as a result of 
their implementation; (v) the guidelines to be followed in connection with the 
finding of cultural property; (vi) the guidelines to be followed to prevent natural 
habitat conversion or degradation; (vii) the guidelines for public consultation; 
(viii) the procedures and technical specifications to be followed by eligible 
contractors in the carrying out of Subprojects; (ix) the Indigenous Peoples 
Planning Framework; (x) the Chaco Indigenous Peoples’ Plan; and (xi) the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, as said framework may be updated and/or 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
12. 
“Identified Subprojects” means, collectively, the following Subprojects: (a) 
Province of Chaco: Provincial Road: RP No. 3, Pampa del Indio – Villa Río 
Bermejito (59.45 km); (b) Province of Tucuman: Provincial Road: RP No. 304, 
Los Gutiérrez – Rio Urueña (86.80 km); and (c) Province of Corrientes: 
Provincial Road: RP No. 94, Santo Tomé – Arroyo Chimiray (66.5 km). 
 
13. 
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means any of the plans acceptable to the 
Bank, adopted by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, and/or the pertinent 
Participating Province when applicable as set forth in the Operational Manual, all 
prepared and to be carried out following the requirements of the Indigenous 
Peoples Planning Framework. 
 
14. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the Borrower’s 
framework, acceptable to the Bank (included in the ESMF) dated November 15, 
2010, setting forth the indigenous peoples policy framework applicable to all the 
activities to be carried out under the Project and the basis and procedures to 
prepare specific indigenous peoples’ plans or related instruments during Project 
implementation. 
 
- 22 - 
15. 
“ISO” means International Organization for Standardization, an international-
standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national 
standards organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and 
commercial standards for products. 
 
16. 
“MPF” means Ministerio de Planificación Federal, Inversion Pública y 
Servicios, the Borrower’s Ministry of Federal Planning, Public Investment and 
Services, or any successor thereto with similar functions and responsibilities as of 
the Signature Date. 
 
17. 
“Non-consultant Services” means services which will be bid and contracted on 
the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs, and which are not 
otherwise covered by any other category of Eligible Expenditures. 
 
18. 
“Norte Grande region” means the Borrower’s region comprised of the following 
Participating Provinces: Catamarca, Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa, Jujuy, 
Misiones, Tucumán, Salta and Santiago del Estero.  
 
19. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated November 15, 2010, 
acceptable to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the criteria for selecting 
any investments under Subprojects; (b) the structures, functions and 
responsibilities of UCPyPFE-UEP under the Project; (c) the Environmental and 
Social Management Framework; (d) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal 
controls; (e) the format of: (i) the unaudited interim financial reports referred to 
in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Financial 
Statements; (f) the terms of reference for carrying out the Project audits under 
Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (g) the Project performance 
indicators (including the results framework); and (h) the Project disbursement 
and procurement procedures, as said manual may be updated and/or amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
 
20. 
“Participating Province” means any of the Borrower’s political subdivisions, as 
per title Two of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution, which exercise partial or total 
jurisdiction over a Subproject in the Norte Grande region. 
 
21. 
“Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement” means any of the 
agreements referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
 
 
- 23 - 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 10, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
24. 
“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the 
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently. 
 
25. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s framework, 
dated November 15, 2010, acceptable to the Bank (included in the Environmental 
and Social Management Framework) which sets forth, inter alia, the principles 
and objectives governing Resettlement preparation and implementation, and a 
description of the applicable legal framework of the Borrower and of each 
Participating Province and the process for preparing and approving resettlement 
plans under Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
 
27. 
“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and 
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references 
to “the date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions. 
 
28. 
“Subproject” means any of the works under Part A of the Project (including the 
Identified Subprojects), to be carried out by eligible contractors, on behalf of the 
Borrower, pursuant to the terms of each Participation, Transfer and Maintenance 
Agreement, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Operational Manual. 
 
29. 
“UCPyPFE” or “Unidad de Coordinación de Programas y Proyectos con 
Financiamiento Externo ” means the MPF’s Unit for Coordination of Externally 
Financed Programs and Projects, as referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, established within MPF pursuant to Ministerial Resolution No. 
165/2000, dated June 21, 2000, as amended by Executive Decree No. 
1,142/2003, or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
30. 
“UCPyPFE-UEP” means the Project executing unit established within the 
UCPyPFE and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or 
any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank. 
- 24 - 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footnotes: 
 
- 25 - 
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
