 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8055-AM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Electricity Supply Reliability Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
Dated June 1, 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 8055-AM 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated June 1, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty nine million Dollars ($39,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(e) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate 
based on a Fixed Spread. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the HVEN in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement, the Operational Manual and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Government Decrees No. 450 dated July 20, 1998 and No. 709, dated 
November 23, 1999, pursuant to which the HVEN has been established and is 
operating has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the HVEN to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the 
HVEN. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
- 3 - 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and the HVEN and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the HVEN in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the HVEN and is 
legally binding upon the HVEN in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower 
1 Melik-Adamyan Street 
Yerevan 0010 
Republic of Armenia  
 
 
Telex: 
 
243331 LADA SU 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 - 
 
 
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
 
 
By /s/ Vache Gabrielyan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Asad Alam 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the reliability and capacity of the power 
transmission network. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Strengthening of the power transmission network 
 
 
Provision of works, goods, and technical assistance for the replacement of an existing 
power transmission line from the Hrazdan Thermal Power Plant to Shinuhayr substation, 
including compensation and grievance mechanisms for land acquisition and resettlement. 
 
Part B: Technical assistance 
 
Provision of goods, technical assistance, including Training and Operating Costs, to the 
HVENC to strengthen its staff capacity in technical supervision, planning, procurement, 
financial management and Project management and supervision of field works. 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the 
Loan available to the HVEN, under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the 
HVEN, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, including those set forth in 
Section A.3 below (“Subsidiary Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
3. 
 The Borrower shall, and shall cause the HVEN to ensure that the HVEN Subsidiary 
Agreement shall comply with the following terms and conditions: 
 
(a) 
the amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be made available in Dollars or Drams 
or any other currency that may be selected by the Borrower for the Loan from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by HVEN in Dollars 
or Drams or any other currency that may be selected by the Borrower for the 
Loan from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement to the Borrower in semi-annual installments over 25 years, including 
a grace period of 10 years;  
 
(c) 
(i) interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at the rate applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement, plus a margin at a 
rate to be determined according to the terms of the Subsidiary Agreement; and 
(ii) a front-end fee in the amount determined according to the provisions of 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, to be deducted from the amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan; and 
(d) 
HVEN shall carry out activities under the Project in accordance with the Anti-
corruption Guidelines. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the HVEN, to maintain the Operational Manual and 
shall duly perform all its obligations under it and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Operational Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank. 
- 7 - 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the HVEN 
to: (a) apply to all activities under the Project the criteria, policies, procedures and 
arrangements set out in the ESIA, EMP for the Project and/or the RPF, as the case may 
be; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived the ESIA, EMP for 
the Project and/or the RPF, as the case may be, or any provision thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Bank, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause HVEN to:  
(a)  
ensure that: (i) the bidding documents for selection of contractor under the 
Project, and a contract to be entered into with the contractor for implementation 
of the activities under Part A of the Project includes a requirement for it to 
comply with the ESIA, EMP and/or the RPF; and (ii) adequate budget for 
implementation of the activities and penalties for non-compliance of the EMP, 
RPF and site specific EMPs and RAPs under the Project; 
 
(b) 
ensure that: (A) prior to commencing the civil works of  respective section of the 
power transmission line under Part A of the Project, the selected contractor: (i) 
develops site-specific EMPs in accordance with the EMP for the Project to be 
submitted to the Bank before a start of civil works for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) makes arrangements for public review and comment of the site 
specific EMPs, any comments received have been responded to in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank, and the final approved version of the site specific EMPs 
have been disclosed locally; and (iii) appoints competent staff in adequate 
numbers and with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank as 
shall enable it to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the site 
specific EMPs; and (B) during the implementation of civil works of a section of 
the power transmission line under Part A of the Project, the selected contractor: 
(i) ensures that the  implementation of the site specific EMPs are completed in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank, including all necessary measures to minimize and 
to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts caused by the implementation of 
the Project; and (ii) ensures that any provision of the site specific EMP is not 
assigned, amended, abrogated or waived without prior review and approval of the 
Bank; 
 
(c) 
ensure that: (A) prior to commencing the civil works of respective section of the 
power transmission line under Part A of the Project, the selected contractor: (i) 
develops site-specific, implementation ready RAPs based on guidelines, 
principles and procedures set forth in the RPF, and submits to the Bank  before a 
start of civil works for review and approval; (ii) makes arrangements for public 
review and comment of the site specific RAPs, any comments received have 
- 8 - 
 
been responded to in a manner, acceptable to the Bank, and the final approved 
version of the RAPs have been disclosed locally; (iii) ensures that all 
compensation is paid and other measures  implemented in accordance with the 
RAP provisions and procedures,  following Bank’s  review and approval of the 
RAPs; and (B) during the implementation of civil works of a section of the power 
transmission line under Part A of the Project, the selected contractor: (i) carries 
out the contract in compliance with the site specific RAPs rules, principles and 
procedures; (ii) maintains or cause to be maintained and publicize or cause to be 
publicized, the availability of, grievance procedures to hear and determine fairly 
and in good faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints raised in relation to 
the implementation of the RAPs by those being affected and/or resettled (as that 
term is defined in the site specific RAPs) or by those communities who are 
adversely affected by the implementation of site specific RAPs, as the case may 
be, and take all measures necessary to implement the RAPs determinations made 
under such grievance procedures; and (iii) ensures that any provision of the site 
specific RAPs is not assigned, amended, abrogated or waived without prior 
review and approval of the Bank. 
(d) 
take all such other actions necessary, including, without limitations: (i) recruiting 
an international resettlement expert, satisfactory to the Bank, to conduct an ex 
post review of the implementation of the site specific RAPs; (ii) furnish promptly 
to the Bank the site specific RAPs findings and recommendations for follow up 
action resulting from each review;  (iii) implement all site-specific RAPs 
recommendations for follow up action as are agreed with the Bank; and (iv) any 
other actions the Bank may decide as necessary and appropriate.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the HVEN to monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one 
month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the HVEN to maintain a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, or shall 
cause the HVEN to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the 
- 9 - 
 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the HVEN to have Project and entity Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Borrower or other period as agreed with the Bank, commencing with the fiscal 
year in which the first withdrawal was made under the Preparation Advance for the 
Project.  The Borrower shall ensure that the audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.   All goods, works and non-consulting 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.  The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consulting services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
- 10 - 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding of the Recipient may be used for procurement 
of goods and works for the Project, provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
(i) 
entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority 
shareholding shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are, and can be shown to be, legally and 
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large and complex works 
projects; 
 
(iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract 
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of 
bidders; 
 
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
 
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening; 
 
(vi) 
bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions of 
clause 2.61 and 2.64 of the Procurement Guidelines are met; 
 
(vii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or 
expressed as a pass/fail criteria;  
 
(viii) 
advance Bank’s approval is required for any substantial modifications 
in the contract scope/conditions during implementation. 
 
(ix) 
the Recipient shall use standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 11 - 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality–Based selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed budget  
(c) Least Cost selection 
(d) Selection based on the Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
- 12 - 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, 
consultants’ services, 
including Training and audit, 
and Operating Costs for 
Project 
 
 
35,902,500 
100% 
(2) Land acquisition/ 
grievance mechanisms under 
the Project 
 
 
2,000,000 
100% 
(3) Refund of the Preparation 
Advance 
 
1,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (a) of the General 
Conditions 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
97,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
39,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made 
from the Loan Account (other than to repay the Preparation Advance) for payments made 
prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
The Subsidiary Agreement shall include the following provisions: 
 
1. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the HVEN shall not incur any debt 
unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of the Project 
Implementing Entity shows that the estimated net revenues of HVEN for each 
Fiscal Year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times 
the estimated debt service requirements of the HVEN in such year on all debt of 
the HVEN including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
- 13 - 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of Project Implementing Entity 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred. 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the 
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and 
net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
cash operating charges and interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and 
other charges on, debt. 
(vi) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the Project 
Implementing Entity not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified the Project Implementing Entity of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial condition or future operating results of the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
- 14 - 
 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to 
the Bank. 
- 15 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
Beginning November 15, 2021  
 
through November 15, 2035 
 
 
 
3.33% 
On May 15, 2036 
3.43% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
- 16 - 
 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
 
- 17 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
4. 
“Dram” means a lawful currency of the Borrower. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan for the Project, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared and adopted by the HVEN and included in the Operational Manual 
describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the 
Project. 
 
6. 
“EMP/s” means the site-specific environmental management plans under the Project, 
including the environmental management plan for selected power transmission line 
section/s to be prepared by the selected contractor and approved by the HVEN pursuant 
to Section C.2 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, describing the environmental 
mitigation and monitoring measures under the Project. 
 
7. 
“ESIA” means the environmental and social impact assessment approved by the HVEN 
and the Bank on April 18, 2011, describing the environmental conditions of the project 
area, the expected impacts and their mitigation, under the prevailing regulatory 
framework of the Borrower and the Bank’s safeguards policies, and referred to in Section 
C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“HVEN” means the High Voltage Electric Networks, a closed joint stock company, 
established pursuant to the Government Decrees No. 450 dated July 20, 1998 and 
No. 709, dated November 23, 1999, and registered in the State Register of the Republic 
of Armenia. 
 
9. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
10. 
“Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred on account of the Project implementation 
such as salaries of staff members, except for those who are civil servants, office supplies, 
minor office equipment, field trips, consuming materials, utilities, operation and 
maintenance costs, mass media and printing costs, in-country travel costs, 
communication costs, reasonable banking charges and other costs directly associated with 
the Project implementation and acceptable to the Bank. 
- 18 - 
 
 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual prepared and approved by the HVEN on April 
18, 2011, describing procedures for the implementation of the Project, consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement and with the national laws and regulations of the Borrower, 
including procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the Project; as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the General 
Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed 
on behalf of the Bank on March 16, 2010 and on behalf of the Borrower on March 20, 
2010. 
  
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and 
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated April 
18, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and HVEN of even date 
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
 
16. 
 “Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Government Decrees referred to 
in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement. 
 
17. 
 “RPF” means the resettlement policy framework prepared and approved on April 18, 
2011 by the HVEN pursuant to Section C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, defining the 
modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation measures for displaced 
persons under Part A of the Project. 
 
18. 
“RAP/s” means the site specific resettlement action plan/s to be prepared and approved 
by the HVEN pursuant to Section C.1 and 2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as 
implementing recommendation of the RPF for selected section/s of the power 
transmission line under the Project. 
 
19. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of 
the Loan available to the HVEN. 
 
20. 
“Training” means expenses incurred by the HVEN in connection with carrying out 
training activities under the Project including travel costs and per diem for local trainees 
and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of facilities and equipment and training 
materials and related supplies. 
