CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7973-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Water Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 14, 2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7973-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 14, 2011, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”) as represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).   
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), has requested the 
Bank to assist in financing the Project. 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan 
(as set forth in the table of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes 
of supporting the Project) shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the 
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower’s 
representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs 
the Bank, the Borrower’s representative for purposes of taking any action 
-2-
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director General 
of BANSEFI, the Director General Adjunto de Banca Institucional of BANSEFI 
or any person or persons whom such representative shall designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
-3-
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower, through CONAGUA (with the assistance of the PWUs) shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that 
BANSEFI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Contrato 
de Mandato. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
one of the events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto; 
and  
 
(b) 
the Borrower, through separate legal opinions satisfactory to the Bank, 
issued by Borrower counsel acceptable to the Bank, from SHCP and 
CONAGUA, and BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to 
the Bank, issued by BANSEFI counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicates 
that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, and BANSEFI 
-4-
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BANSEFI in accordance 
with the Contrato de Mandato’s terms. 
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 9, 2012. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General 
Conditions: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre III, Piso 3 
Col. Guadalupe Inn, 01020 
Delegación Álvaro Obregón, México D.F. 
 
Facsimile: 011-52 55325-69291216 
 
6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-5-
AGREED at Mexico City, United Mexican States, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Alejandro Díaz de León 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 
Authorized Representative 
-6-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of Participating Water 
Utilities through the provision of technical assistance and Financing. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1: Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Information and Knowledge 
Management Improvement
Improving water supply and sanitation institutions’ capacity with regards to efficiency 
improvement, through the provision of the necessary goods, Training, Non-Consultant 
Services, consultants’ services, and Operating Costs to CONAGUA to enable it to carry 
on: (a) management of information activities; and (b) management of knowledge 
activities.  
 
Part 2: Modernization of the services of Participating Water Utilities
(a) 
Provision of support for the carrying out of diagnostic studies, 
preparation of investment plans and support for the efficiency 
improvement of PWUs, through the provision of Financing to PWUs for 
the implementation of Technical Assistance Subprojects. 
 
(b) 
Provision of support for the carrying out of Physical Efficiency 
Investments and Commercial Efficiency Investments, through the 
provision of Financing to PWUs for the implementation of Efficiency 
Subprojects. 
 
(c) 
Provision of support for the carrying out of Physical Efficiency 
Investments and Commercial Efficiency Investments, through Output-
based disbursements to Eligible PWUs, for the implementation of pilot 
Output-based Subprojects.  
 
-7-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
The Borrower shall maintain at all times during Project implementation, 
CONAGUA’s WSSU Institutional Strengthening Unit, with staff, structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank, responsible for the management, coordination, 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including, without 
limitation, the carrying out, in collaboration with PWUs and BANSEFI, as set 
forth in the Operational Manual, of procurement and financial management 
activities under the Project, together with the responsibility for the preparation of 
the financial statements, financial reports Project Reports, and maintenance of the 
records and accounts referred to in Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Contrato de Mandato 
1. 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato), 
satisfactory to the Bank, among SHCP, CONAGUA and BANSEFI, whereby, 
inter alia:
(a) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, BANSEFI agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds;  
 
(b) 
BANSEFI agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower, through CONAGUA, agrees to carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines, the Operational Manual (including the Project’s financial 
management and procurement arrangements) and OBD Operational 
Manual;  
 
(d) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or 
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the 
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its 
effects, or, if applicable, require the restitution of funds transferred to 
BANSEFI under said Contrato de Mandato; and   
-8-
(e)   
the Borrower, through CONAGUA, agrees to cooperate fully with 
BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply with all of 
BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in Section I.B.1 (a) and (b) herein.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  The Borrower shall not amend, waive or 
fail to enforce the Contrato de Mandato or any provision thereof, except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree. In case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Safeguards and Operational Manuals 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of: 
 
(a) 
the Environmental and Resettlement Framework; 
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain, 
inter alia, specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying 
out of the Project, including: (i) the procedures for the carrying out, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (ii) the Project procurement, 
financial management and audit requirements and procedures; (iii) the 
criteria for the approval, implementation and monitoring of the 
Subprojects; (iv) the institutional arrangements for the Project; (v) the 
detailed eligibility criteria and procedures for selecting the PWUs; (vi) 
the model form of Subproject Agreements (Anexo Técnico); (vii) the 
Environmental 
and 
Resettlement 
Framework, 
containing 
the 
environmental guidelines for construction, including procedures to 
follow in case of unexpected findings of objects with possible cultural or 
archeological value; as well as the processes to identify and adequately 
address resettlement cases should they occur;  and (viii) the performance 
indicators for the Project; and 
(c) 
the OBD Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
contain, inter alia, specific arrangements for the carrying out of Part 2 (c) 
of the Project, including but not limited to: (i) the detailed eligibility 
criteria and procedures for identifying the Selected PWUs; (ii) the 
criteria for the approval and implementation of Output-based 
Subprojects; (iii) the procurement, financial management and audit 
requirements and procedures for the component; (iv) the methodology to 
determine the Unit Cost to be paid on the basis of: (A) cubic meter of 
-9-
water saved per month (m3/month over a given baseline), for Physical 
Efficiency Investments; (B) kilowatt of electricity saved per cubic meter 
produced per month (kWh/m3/month) over a given baseline, for energy 
efficiency improvements activities; and (C) additional cubic meters 
billed on the basis of metered volume (m3/month) over a given baseline, 
for Commercial Efficiency Investments, all being subject to periodic 
evaluations and/or reassessments to be agreed between the Bank and the 
Borrower; (v) the terms of reference for the hiring of the technical 
consultant carrying out the independent technical audit of Part 2 (c) of 
the Project; (vi) the flow of funds under the component; (vii) the 
implementation, monitoring (including monitoring indicators) and 
auditing mechanisms to be used for the implementation of Part 2(c) of 
the Project; (viii) the model form of Output-based Subproject 
Agreements (Anexo Técnico), which shall require, inter alia, the 
inclusion of applicable Outputs eligible for financing under each Output-
based Subproject Agreement; and (ix) the provisions for the carrying out 
of periodical reviews of Outputs and unit costs at intervals acceptable to 
both the Borrower and the Bank, as well as methodology for adjustments 
of said inputs and unit costs after such reviews, as necessary. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive 
or fail to enforce any provision of the Operational Manual or the OBD 
Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written consent. In case of any 
conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and the OBD Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.   
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause Eligible PWUs, to ensure that the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
E. 
Subprojects 
 
For the purposes of carrying out Parts 2 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project, the 
Borrower, through CONAGUA, shall:  
 
(1) 
after having selected a Technical Assistance Subproject,  an Efficiency 
Subproject, or an Output-based Subproject, as the case may be, in 
accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual (for 
Technical 
Assistance 
and 
Efficiency 
Subprojects) and in the OBD Operational Manual (for Output-based 
Subprojects), enter into an agreement with an Eligible PWU (the 
Technical Assistance Subproject Agreement,  the Efficiency Subproject 
Agreement, and the Output-based Subproject Agreement, respectively), 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the provision of 
-10-
Financing for the implementation of a Technical Assistance Subproject, 
an Efficiency Subproject or an Output-based Subproject, as the case may 
be; and 
 
(2) 
exercise its rights under each Technical Assistance Subproject 
Agreement, 
Efficiency 
Subproject 
Agreement 
or 
Output-based 
Subproject Agreement, as the case may be, in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any 
Technical Assistance Agreement, Efficiency Subproject Agreement, or 
Output-based Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of 
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Performance 
Indicators included in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than ninety (90) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through CONAGUA, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project 
Report, not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through CONAGUA shall have the Financial Statements of the 
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six months 
after the end of such period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion 
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.  
 
-11-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).  All goods, 
works and Services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and 
to be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided 
under the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under 
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions. The Borrower, through CONAGUA, shall: (a) supply the 
SEPA with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 
days after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the 
Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the 
actual Project implementation needs and progress and supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services) 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services).
The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services). The 
Procurement Plan and the Operational Manual shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
-12-
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding  
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior written consent 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
and the Operational Manual shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Single Source Selection, subject to the Bank’s prior written consent. 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan and the Operational Manual shall set forth those contracts 
which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions). 
 
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on 
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to 
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan 
-13-
shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A.1 
immediately above.  Consistent with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under 
the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures. 
 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the 
Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
 to be financed 
(inclusive of  Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, Training, Non-
Consultant Services, consultants’ 
services and Operating Costs under 
Part 1 of the Project 
 
4,750,000 
100% 
(2)  Goods, works, Non-Consultant 
Services, consultants’ services, 
Operating Costs and Training 
financed through: 
(a) Technical Assistance 
Subprojects under Part 2 (a) of the 
Project 
(b) Efficiency Subprojects under 
Part 2 (b) of the Project 
 
5,000,000 
 
87,000,000 
100% 
(3)  Output-based Subprojects 
under Part 2 (c) of the Project  
 
3,000,000 
100% of the actual Outputs at the 
applicable Unit Cost included in the 
respective Output-based Subproject 
Agreement (Anexo Técnico)
(4)  Front-end fee 
 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Loan Agreement, in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
(5)  Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0 
Amounts due under Section 2.07 (c) 
of the Loan Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 100,000,000 
 
-14-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments: 
(a)   
made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed USD$20,000,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but after June 1st, 2010 but in 
no case made more than twelve (12) months prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
made under Category (3) of the table in Section IV A. 3 of this Schedule, 
until and unless: (i) the OBD Operational Manual has been adopted by 
the Borrower, through CONAGUA, and is satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii) at least one Output-based Subproject Agreement (Anexo Técnico)
shall have been entered into between the Borrower, through CONAGUA, 
and the Eligible PWU. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
Section V. 
Access to Information
The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any information related to the Legal 
Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to information, in effect at the time of 
such disclosure. 
 
-15-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15, 2022. 
 
-16-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
2. 
“BANSEFI” means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros,
Sociedad Nacional de Crédito a Mexican development bank serving as the 
Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“CONAGUA” means Comisión Nacional del Agua, the Borrower’s National 
Water Commission.  
5. 
"Commercial Efficiency" means the ratio between the monetary amount billed to 
end users by an Eligible PWU and the monetary amount collected by such 
Eligible PWU over a given one year period.  
6. 
“Commercial Efficiency Investments” means the activities to be carried out by an 
Eligible PWU under an Output-based Subproject Agreement aimed at increasing 
its Commercial Efficiency, including (i) the updating of the customer billing 
registry and system; (ii) the installation of individual water meters; (iii) the 
improvement to client attention systems; and/or (iv) any of the activities 
described in the ODB Operational Manual.  
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
8. 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the Agreement to be entered into among the 
Borrower, through SHCP, CONAGUA and BANSEFI, pursuant to Section I.B.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Efficiency Subproject” means a subproject to be carried out by an Eligible 
PWU, identified and prioritized by the Borrower, through CONAGUA, and 
approved in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual, for the financing of a wide variety of Physical Efficiency 
Investments and Commercial Efficiency Investments identified in the 
Operational Manual, and referred to in Part 2 (b) of the Project. 
-17-
10. 
“Efficiency Subproject Agreement” means the   memorandum of understanding 
(Anexo Técnico) to be entered into between the Borrower, through CONAGUA, 
and an Eligible PWU, as specified in Section  I.E. of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement for the provision of Financing under Part 2 (b) of the Project, 
following a model agreement to be included in the Operational Manual. 
 
11. 
“Eligible PWUs” means a public or private water utility operating in the 
Borrower’s territory, that meets the criteria set forth in the respective Operational 
Manual to implement Technical Assistance Subprojects, Efficiency Subprojects 
and Output-based Subprojects under Parts 2 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project, 
respectively. 
 
12. 
“Environmental and Resettlement Framework” means the framework prepared by 
the Borrower, through CONAGUA, dated June 30, 2010, published and available 
to the public on July 2nd, 2010, which sets out the environmental protection 
measures in respect of the Project, including: (i) an environmental screening 
checklist for Project interventions; (ii) environmental supervision, monitoring 
and evaluation procedures for the Project; and (iii) procedures for the involuntary 
resettlement screening. 
 
13. 
“Financing” means a financial transfer from the Borrower to the Eligible PWU, 
on a periodic basis, for: (a) in the case of Technical Assistance and Efficiency 
Subprojects, the payment of goods, works and services required for their 
implementation; and (b) in the case of Output-based Subprojects, the payment of 
Outputs. 
 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
15. 
“Non-Consultant Services” means services which are bid and contracted on the 
basis of performance of a measurable physical output, such as household surveys, 
meter reading, and topographical surveys. 
 
16. 
 “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs, as well as 
salaries of locally contracted employees. 
 
17. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated October 4, 2010 and referred to in 
Section I.C. (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
-18-
18. 
“Output” means any of the outputs eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan to be included as part of each Output-based Subproject Agreement for 
each Output-based Subproject and in the numbers and typology included in the 
respective Output-based Subproject Agreements. 
 
19. 
“Output-based disbursement Operational Manual or OBD Operational Manual” 
means the manual referred to in Section I.C. (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
as said manual may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
approval. 
 
20. 
“Output-based Subproject” means a subproject identified and prioritized by the 
Borrower, through CONAGUA, and approved in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the OBD Operational Manual, for the financing of specific 
Physical Efficiency Investments and Commercial Efficiency Investments 
identified in the OBD Operational Manual, and referred to in Part 2 (c) of the 
Project. 
 
21. 
“Output-based Subproject Agreement” means the memorandum of understanding 
(Anexo Técnico) to be entered into between the Borrower, through CONAGUA, 
and an Eligible PWU, as specified in Section I.E. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
for the provision of Financing for an Output-based Subproject (through Output-
based disbursements) under Part 2 (c) of the Project, following a model 
agreement to be included in the OBD Operational Manual. 
 
22. 
"Physical Efficiency" means the ratio between the volume of water billed to end 
users by an Eligible PWU and the volume of water produced by such Eligible 
PWU over a given one year period. 
 
23. 
 “Physical Efficiency Investments” means the activities to be carried out by an 
Eligible PWU under an Efficiency Subproject Agreement aimed at increasing its 
Physical Efficiency, including (i) the detection and reparation of water leaks; (ii) 
the implementation of district metering areas; (iii) the installation of source and 
district-level meters; (iv) the rehabilitation of network infrastructure; and/or (v) 
any of the activities described in the Operational Manual.  
 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated August 6, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
-19-
26. 
“PWU” means participating water utility. 
 
27. 
 “SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
 
28. 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.  
 
29. 
“Technical Assistance Subprojects” means a subproject to be carried out by an 
Eligible PWU, identified and prioritized by the Borrower, through CONAGUA, 
and approved in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual, for the financing of diagnostic studies, preparation of 
investment plans and provision of support for the efficiency improvement of 
PWUs, all identified in the Operational Manual, and referred to in Part 2 (a) of 
the Project. 
 
30. 
“Technical Assistance Subproject Agreements” means the memorandum of 
understanding (Anexo Técnico) to be entered into between the Borrower, through 
CONAGUA, and an Eligible PWU, as specified in Section  I.E. of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement for the provision of Financing under Part 2 (a) of the Project, 
following a model agreement to be included in the Operational Manual. 
 
31. 
“Training” means: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures 
incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training and by non-
consultant training facilitators, including therein workshops, conferences and 
study tours; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material 
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses. 
 
32. 
“Unit Cost” means the unit cost of goods, works, Operating Costs, Non-
Consultant Services and consultants’ services required for implementation of 
each of the Outputs of a Output-based Subproject in a typology specified in each 
of the Output-based Subproject Agreements, all as set forth in the OBD 
Operational Manual and the Output-based Subproject Agreement. 
 
33. 
“WSSU” means water supply and sanitation utility. 
 
34. 
“WSSU Institutional Strengthening Unit” means the Gerencia de Fortalecimiento 
de Organismos Operadores, the unit within CONAGUA referred to in Section 
I.A of the Loan Agreement. 
 
-20-
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier 
that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
-21-
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
32. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the 
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
-22-
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
