DOCNENUS
CTF LOAN NUMBER TW0407-ID
Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement
(Geothermal Clean Energy Investment Project -
Total Project Development in Ulubelu Units 3 and 4 and Lahendong Units 5 and 6)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
Dated De(..v 
eex 
,2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
0
CTF LOAN NUMBER Ti40407-ID
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated, DI 0 
, 
2011, entered into between:
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("World Bank"), acting not in its
individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Clean
Technology Fund.
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twenty five
million Dollars ($125,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to the IBRD Loan Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund. 
In accordance with
Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions, the Borrower may withdraw the Loan
proceeds subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of
the Standard Conditions, shall be equal to one-quarter of one percent (1/4 of 1%)
of the Loan. 
The Borrower shall pay the Management Fee not later than
sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-fourths of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per annum.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entities in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the
Standard Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower's Decision No. C-24026.HT.0 1.01 dated October 9, 2003
or Decree No. W7-00089.HT.01.01.Th.2007 dated January 3, 2007
pursuant to which Pertamina and PGE, respectively, have been
established and are operating and any other laws and regulations
governing the organization, reorganization, restructuring, and operations
of the Project Implementing Entities have been assigned, amended,
abrogated, or waived, or permitted to be assigned, amended, abrogated,
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of either of
the Project Implementing Entities to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower has failed to perform any of its obligations under the
IBRD Loan Agreement.
(c) 
Any Governmental Approval lapses, or has been suspended, revoked, or
canceled so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PGE to
construct, operate, or maintain the Facilities, or a substantial part thereof.
-3-
(d) 
Any of the provisions of the Joint H2S Abatement Agreement shall have
been assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, or permitted to be
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the implementation of the Project or the achievement of the
objective thereof.
(e) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make
it improbable that the parties to the Joint H2S Abatement Agreement will
be able to perform their obligations under said Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has
been given by the World Bank to the Borrower.
(b) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 (d) of this Agreement occurs.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and Pertamina.
(b) 
The IBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
(c) 
The Project Implementation Plan, including the Governance and
Accountability Framework, has been adopted in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.C.2 (a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and Pertamina and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Pertamina in
accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its minister responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
DJMLN-IA 
62-21-381-2859
Jakarta 
44319 DEPKEU-IA
6.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Rahmat Waluyanto
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the
Clean Technology Fund
By
Authorized Representative
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arranfements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Pertamina under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, under
terms and conditions agreed by the Borrower and the World Bank, which shall
include the obligation of Pertamina to:
(a) 
(i) pay the Borrower a management fee in an amount equal to the
Management Fee specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (ii) repay
the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan over a period consistent with
Section 2.07 of this Agreement; and (iii) pay the Borrower a service
charge in an amount equal to the Service Charge specified in
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a premium of one half of one
percent (0.5%), except as may be otherwise agreed in writing between
the Borrower and the Bank; and
(b) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Borrower and the World
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Governance and
Accountability Framework.
C. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall cause Pertamina to cause PGE to: (a) maintain all
Governmental Approvals throughout Project implementation; and (b) provide
written notice to the World Bank of its receipt from any Governmental Authority
of any notice of potential suspension, revocation, or cancellation of any
-7-
Government Approvals, as well as of any suspension, revocation, or cancellation
of any such Approvals, in either case within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt
of such notice, or of the date of such suspension, revocation, or cancellation, as
the case may be, and any remedial measures it proposes to take or causes to be
taken to restore such Approvals.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Pertamina to cause PGE to take all measures necessary
on its part to collect, compile, and submit to the World Bank, as part of the
Project Reports, copies of all periodic reports submitted to the Ministry of
Environment in relation to compliance with the AMDAL Instruments and the
UKL / UPL Instruments.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause Pertamina to cause PGE to finance exclusively out of
its own resources or other resources, and not out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
provide, promptly as needed, the resources needed for the following: (a) all land
acquisition required for the purposes of the Project; and (b) resettlement and
rehabilitation payments and other assistance to Displaced Persons in accordance
with the provisions of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
and any Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plans.
Joint H2S Abatement Agreement
4. 
The Borrower shall cause Pertamina to cause PGE and shall cause PLN to
comply with the provisions of the Joint H2S Abatement Agreement, including
with respect to the necessary investments in abatement technology, particularly
on the basis of the outcome of the monitoring of H2S emissions carried out by
PGE and PLN pursuant to said Agreement.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause Pertamina to cause PGE to collect, compile, and
submit to the World Bank, as part of the Project Reports, the information on the
status of compliance with the Joint H2S Abatement Agreement, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of said Agreement;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of said Agreement; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
-8-
Section H. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Semi-Annual Reviews; Completion Report
1. 
The Borrower shall review jointly with the World Bank and the Project
Implementing Entities, on a semi-annual basis commencing six (6) months after
the Effective Date, or such later date as the World Bank shall request, progress in
Project implementation, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of such review and the World
Bank's views on the matter.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the
Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish or cause to be prepared and furnished to the World Bank, not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have or cause to have the Financial Statements for the Project
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard
Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of
one (1) fiscal year of PGE. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the
end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
-9-
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) Shopping
(b) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those assignments which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
-10-
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Least-Cost Selection
(c) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(d) Single-Source Selection
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
-ll-
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Loan Allocated 
Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Goods, works, non- 
$125,000,000 
100
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training, and
Operating Costs under
the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$125,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Management Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2015.
-12-
SCHEDULE 2
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
Date Payment Due 
(expressed as a percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15:
commencing October 15, 2021 to and including 
1.00
April 15, 2031
commencing October 15, 2031 to and including 
2.00
April 15, 2051
-13-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"AMDAL Instruments" means, collectively, PT Pertamina Geothermal Energy
(PGE) (as hereinafter defined)'s instruments, agreed with the Borrower as part of
the 
consultative 
AMDAL 
(Analisis 
Mengenai 
Dampak Lingkungan
(environmental impact assessment)) process required under the Borrower's laws,
setting out the environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under the
Project with respect to Ulubelu (as hereinafter defined) and mitigation,
monitoring, and reporting measures in that regard, and comprising the
environmental impact assessment (Analisis Dampak Lingkungan Hidup or
ANDAL) dated 2010 and approved by the Borrower on October 20, 2010, the
environmental management plan (Rencana Pengelolaan Lingkungan Hidup or
RKL) dated July 2010, and the environmental monitoring plan (Rencana
Pemantauan Lingkungan Hidup or RPL) dated July 2010, as the same may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Borrower, and
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the World Bank in
May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
4. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of Project implementation,
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused
by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person;
and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such persons.
5. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessments" means, collectively, PGE's
assessments, with respect to Lahendong (Tompaso) (as hereinafter defined) and
Ulubelu (as hereinafter defined), respectively, dated February and February /
March 2011, respectively, and agreed with the World Bank, of the environmental
and social impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project and
including Environmental and Social Management Plans (as hereinafter defined),
as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the World Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
assessments.
-14-
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plans" means, collectively, PGE's plans
with respect to Lahendong (Tompaso) and Ulubelu, respectively, part of and of
even date with the respective Environmental and Social Impact Assessment,
setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures,
including capacity building through training, to eliminate any adverse
environmental and social impacts of activities to be implemented under the
Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive
impacts, and including guidelines and procedures for the preparation of Health,
Safety, and Environmental Management Plans (as hereinafter defined), as the
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
World Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plans.
7. 
"Facilities" means, collectively, the power plants to be constructed, operated, and
maintained by PGE, and commonly known as: (a) Lahendong (Tompaso) units 5
and 6; and (b) Ulubelu units 3 and 4, as well as the associated transmission lines
and facilities identified in the Environmental and Social Impact Assessments,
including cooling towers, steam fields, wells, well pads, steam-field above-
ground systems, ponds, access roads, offices, workers' 
compounds, and
supporting infrastructure.
8. 
"Governance and Accountability Framework" means PGE's framework, referred
to in Section I.C.2 (a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, setting out
measures to reinforce Project governance, enhance the transparency of Project
activities, increase public accountability, and reduce opportunities for collusion,
corruption, or fraud under the Project and including an action plan for such
purpose, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such framework.
9. 
"Governmental Approval" means any environmental or social approval, consent,
concession, decree, permit, waiver, privilege, exemption, and approval from, or
filing with, or notice to, any Governmental Authority required for the
construction, operation, or maintenance of the Facilities.
10. 
"Governmental Authority" means the Government of Indonesia and any ministry,
department, political subdivision, instrumentality, agency, authority, corporation,
or commission under the direct or indirect control of the Government of
Indonesia, any court or tribunal in Indonesia, any such other entity, or any
successor thereto.
11. 
"H2S" means hydrogen sulfide.
12. 
"Health, Safety, and Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, of a
contractor under a Subproject (as hereinafter defined), to be prepared in
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management
-15-
Plans and agreed with PGE, setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to eliminate
any adverse health, safety, and environmental impacts of activities to be
implemented under the Subproject, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of PGE, and such term includes any
annexes or schedules to such plan.
13. 
"IBRD Loan" means the loan in the amount of one hundred seventy five million
Dollars ($175,000,000) provided by the World Bank, acting in its individual
capacity, to assist in financing the Project.
14. 
"IBRD Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the World Bank, acting in its individual capacity, providing for
the IBRD Loan, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes any annexes or schedules to such agreement.
15. 
"Inter-Company 
Funding 
Mechanism" 
means 
PT 
Pertamina 
(Persero)
(Pertamina)'s mechanism providing for the provision of funding to its
subsidiaries, and set forth or referred to in its Finance Directorate Policy
No. 55 1/HOOOOO/2009-S4 dated December 22, 2009, as may be amended from
time to time, and referred to in Section 1.B. 1 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement pursuant to which Pertamina shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to PGE.
16. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the following caused on account of Project
implementation: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks
and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected
person.
17. 
"Joint 
H2S 
Abatement 
Agreement" 
means 
the 
agreement 
dated
December 31, 2010 among the Borrower, PGE, and PT PLN (Persero) (as
hereinafter defined), setting forth arrangements for the abatement and monitoring
of H2S emissions in Ulubelu, as the same may be amended from time to time in
accordance with its terms.
18. 
"Lahendong (Tompaso)" means the Tompaso geothermal field in the province of
North Sulawesi in the Borrower's territory.
19. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan" means PGE's plan, to be
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Policy Framework (as hereinafter defined) in the event of
-16-
Involuntary Resettlement, setting out the arrangements pertaining to land
acquisition and the compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Displaced
Persons, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such plan.
20. 
"Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework" 
means PGE's
framework, disclosed on October 7, 2010, agreed with the Bank and setting out
the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, to carry out acquisition of land and related
assets under the Project and compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of
Displaced Persons and preparation of Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action
Plans in the event of Involuntary Resettlement, as the same may be modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank, and such
term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework.
21. 
"Ministry of Environment" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for the
management of the environment, or any successor thereto.
22. 
"MW" means megawatt, or one million (1,000,000) watts, a standard unit of
measure of electric power.
23. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures under
the Project, incurred by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entities (as
hereinafter defined) for purposes of Project management, implementation, and
monitoring and evaluation, on account of utilities and supplies, bank charges,
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space
rental, building and equipment maintenance, public awareness-related publicity
and media expenses, domestic travel and subsistence, and salaries of contractual
and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, bonuses, fees, or honoraria of
members of the Borrower's civil service.
24. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised
in October 2006 and May 2010.
25. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated June 21, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
26. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means PGE's plan, referred to in Section I.D. 1 (a)
(i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, agreed with the Bank and setting
out implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation,
financial management, disbursement, and procurement arrangements and a time-
-17-
bound roadmap for purposes of Project implementation, and including the
Governance and Accountability Framework, as the same may be modified from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank, and such term
includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.
27. 
"Project Implementation Unit" means PGE's entity, established and operating
pursuant to PT Pertamina Geothermal Energy (as hereinafter defined)'s President
Director's Decree No. 055/PGEOOO/2010-SO dated January 28, 2010, and whose
responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.3 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, or any successor thereto.
28. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means, individually, each of the following: (a)
Pertamina; and (b) 
PGE; and "Project 
Implementing Entities" means,
collectively, both of said entities.
29. 
"PT Pertamina (Persero)" or "Pertamina" means the state-owned oil and gas
enterprise established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Government
Regulation No. 31/2003 dated June 18, 2003, followed by Notarial Deed No. 20
dated September 17, 2003 of Lenny Janis Ishak, S.H., as approved by Ministry of
Law and Human Rights Decision Letter No. C-24025 HT.O1.01Th.2003, or any
successor thereto.
30. 
"PT Pertamina Geothermal Energy" or "PGE" means Pertamina's wholly-owned
subsidiary, established and operating pursuant to Notarial Deed No. 10 dated
December 12, 2006 of Marianne Vincentia Hamdani, S.H., as approved by
Ministry 
of Law 
and 
Human 
Rights 
Decision 
Letter 
No. 
W7-
00089.HT.0 1.01 .Th.2007 dated January 3, 2007, or any successor thereto.
31. 
"PT PLN (Persero)" or "PLN" means Perusahaan Listrik Negara (State
Electricity Company), the Borrower's wholly-owned enterprise, established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 19 dated 1960, Law No. 9 dated
1969, Government Regulation No. 3 dated 1983, Government Regulation No. 28
dated 1983, Government Regulation No. 10 dated 1989, and Government
Regulation No. 23 dated 1994, or any successor thereto.
32. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessments, the Environmental and Social Management Plans, the Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, and any Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Action Plans, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to
such instruments.
33. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated July 31, 2010.
-18-
34. 
"Subproject" means one (1) or more contract packages under the Project,
grouped together for procurement purposes.
35. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 5.01 (a) of, and
Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 1 to, this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower
shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Pertamina.
36. 
"Training" means the cost of training financed under the Project, attributable to
seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with the cost of domestic and
international travel and subsistence for training participants, services of trainers,
rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials,
and other activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
37. 
"UKL / UPL Instruments" means, collectively, PGE's instruments, agreed with
the Borrower and required under the Borrower's laws, setting out the
environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project with
respect to Lahendong (Tompaso) and mitigation, monitoring, and reporting
measures in that regard, and comprising the environmental management and
monitoring efforts (Upaya Pengelolaan Lingkungan Hidup or UKL and Upaya
Pemantauan Lingkungan Hidup or UPL) dated 2010 and approved by the
Borrower on April 23, 2010, as the same may be modified from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Borrower, and such term includes any annexes
or schedules to such instruments.
38. 
"Ulubelu" means the geothermal field by that name in the province of Lampung
in the Borrower's territory.
