CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8001-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Zhejiang Qiantang River Basin Small Town Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 3, 2011   
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 3, 2011 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined and modified in Appendix 1 to this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
Appendix 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity (Zhejiang) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
party to the Subsidiary Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE V – TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By/s Chen Shixin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Zhejiang in improving access to 
sustainable urban environmental infrastructure services in selected cities, districts and 
towns in the Qiantang River Basin. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part I. Water Supply and Distribution  
 
Construction and/or installation of water supply treatment plants and clear water 
distribution networks to enhance water supply in the sub-urban areas and 
adjacent towns in:  
 
1.  
Zhuji City of Shaoxing Municipality; and  
 
2.  
Wucheng District of Jinhua Municipality.  
 
Part II.  Wastewater Collection and Treatment  
 
Construction and/or installation of wastewater collection networks and treatment 
facilities, stormwater collection networks, associated roads, and river 
embankment rehabilitation works in:  
 
1. 
Jiande City of Hangzhou Municipality; 
 
2. 
Qujiang District of Quzhou Municipality; 
 
3. 
Lanxi City/Youbu Town of Jinhua Municipality; 
 
4. 
Pan’an County/Jianshan Town of Jinhua Municipality;  
 
5. 
Pan’an County/Shenzhe District of Jinhua Municipality; 
 
6. 
Pan’an County/Yunshan District of Jinhua Municipality;   
 
7. 
Tonglu County/Jiangnan Town of Hangzhou Municipality; and 
 
8. 
Longyou County/Chengbei New District of Quzhou Municipality. 
 
6
Part III. Solid Waste Management 
 
Improvements in solid waste management in Jiande City of Hangzhou 
Municipality through the construction of the Qingshankejiawu landfill in 
Meicheng Town which will serve five (5) towns and one (1) community of 
Jiande City; the construction of a tertiary leachate treatment plant; the closure of 
three (3) existing open dumps; and the provision of solid waste collection 
vehicles and equipment. 
 
Part IV. Institutional Strengthening and Training 
 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for Project management and 
implementation including advisory and quality control services to the 
PPMO, PMOs, and PIUs in support of the Project’s infrastructure 
investments and on institutional and financial sustainability issues.  
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to support the development of strategic 
master plans and/or other specific studies as the Bank may agree for 
sustainable environmental infrastructure service provision in small 
towns.  
 
3. 
Provision of training and carrying out of study tours to build capacity of 
the PPMO, PMOs, and PIUs on technical, operational and institutional 
aspects of sustainable environmental infrastructure service provision in 
small towns.  
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
to time to Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this 
Schedule to the Project Implementing Entity (Zhejiang), under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premia 
paid pursuant to Section 2.07 of this Agreement) shall be recovered over 
a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) 
years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than March 1 and 
September 1 in each year, starting on September 1, 2011.                                                    
 
8
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report by not later than 
March 1 and September 1 in each year after the end of each calendar semester, 
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
9
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding. In addition, the procedures to be followed 
for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on 
Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by 
Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on August 
30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with 
the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except 
for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent each and for goods contracts that are estimated to cost 
less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or 
bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders 
between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating 
the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the 
bidding documents. 
 
(iii) All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no 
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity (Zhejiang), as the case may be, in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time 
for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt 
of such bids. 
10
 
11
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity (Zhejiang), as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) 
to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) 
to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for 
work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to 
modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at 
its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a 
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall 
not take place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered price 
of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope 
of the awarded contract.   
 
12
(xiv)  The Project Implementing Entity (Zhejiang) shall have in place 
provisions for bidders to protest. 
(b) 
Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single-source Selection 
(d)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
13
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed  
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods and Works for: 
 
 
(a) Part I.1 of the Project (Zhuji 
City) 
10,250,000 
 
68% 
 
(b)  Part I.2 of the Project (Wucheng 
District) 
8,690,000 
 
94% 
 
(c)  Part II.1 of the Project (Jiande 
City) 
8,320,000 
 
70% 
 
(d)  Part II.2 of the Project (Qujiang 
District) 
14,240,000 
 
73% 
 
(e)  Part II.3 of the Project (Lanxi 
City/Youbu Town) 
6,060,000 
 
64% 
 
(f)  Part II.4 of the Project (Pan’an 
County/Jianshan Town) 
4,670,000 
 
76% 
 
(g)  Part II.5 of the Project (Pan’an 
County/Shenzhe District) 
11,510,000 
63% 
 
(h)  Part II.6 of the Project (Pan’an 
County/Yunshan District) 
4,400,000 
 
63% 
 
(i)  Part II.7 of the Project (Tonglu 
County/Jiangnan Town) 
8,640,000 
 
64% 
 
(j)  Part 
II.8 
of 
the 
Project 
(Longyou 
County/Chengbei 
New District) 
10,040,000 
 
62% 
 
(k) Part III of the Project (Jiande 
City/Meicheng Town) 
10,930,000 
77% 
(2)  Consultants’ services and Training 
for Part IV of the Project 
2,000,000 
100% 
(3)  Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
14
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed  
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(4) 
Premium for Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  $20,000,000 may 
be made for payments made within twelve (12) months prior to this date 
but on or after May 1, 2010 for Eligible Expenditures; or 
 
(b) 
under Category (1) for payments made by or for the benefit of a Project 
Participant under its respective subcategory until the respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Subsidiary Implementation Agreement 
(as the case may be) has been entered into between the Project 
Participant concerned and its respective Project Company, satisfactory to 
the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part D.1(a) 
and (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 
 
15
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
March 15, 2016 
2.28%
September 15, 2016 
2.34% 
March 15, 2017 
2.40% 
September 15, 2017 
2.46% 
March 15, 2018 
2.52% 
September 15, 2018 
2.58% 
March 15, 2019 
2.64% 
September 15, 2019 
2.71% 
March 15, 2020 
2.78% 
September 15, 2020 
2.85% 
March 15, 2021 
2.92% 
September 15, 2021 
2.99% 
March 15, 2022 
3.07% 
September 15, 2022 
3.14% 
March15, 2023 
3.22% 
September 15, 2023 
3.30% 
March 15, 2024 
3.39% 
September 15, 2024 
3.47% 
March 15, 2025 
3.56% 
September 15, 2025 
3.65% 
March15, 2026 
3.74% 
September 15, 2026 
3.83% 
March 15, 2027 
3.93% 
September 15, 2027 
4.02% 
March 15, 2028 
4.12% 
September 15, 2028 
4.23% 
March 15, 2029 
4.33% 
16
September 15, 2029 
4.44% 
March 15, 2030 
4.55% 
September 15, 2030 
4.54% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
17
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
18
 
APPENDIX 1 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.  
 
4. 
“Dam Safety Plan” means the Operations and Maintenance Plans for:  
 
(a)  
Qingshan Reservoir in Zhuji City dated March 1, 2010; and 
 
(b) 
Xinfan Reservoir in Wucheng District dated June 1, 2008;  
 
prepared by the concerned Project Participant to ensure the safety of the Xinfan 
Dam in Wucheng District and the Qingshan Dam in Zhuji City.  
 
5. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by:  
 
(a)  
the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move 
to another location; or  
 
(b)  
the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
6. 
The acronym “EMPs” means, collectively the environmental assessment and 
environmental management plans all dated June 30, 2010 and which set out 
measures for the protection of the environment; and avoidance of, or mitigation 
against, adverse impact on physical cultural resources, as well as administrative 
and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said 
plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
19
The acronym “EMP” means, individually, any such plan. 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Project Companies, covering the 
period January 1 through December 31.  
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Linked Activities” means activities outside the Project scope to be carried out 
by the Project Implementing Entity, exclusively financed by counterpart funds, in 
connection with: 
 
(a)  
the roads and sewage networks in Qujiang District to be constructed 
under Part II.2 of the Project;  
 
(b)  
the rehabilitation of existing roads in Panan County to be carried out 
under Part II.5 of the Project;  
 
(c) 
the landfill site in Panan County constructed in relation to the 
infrastructure  of Part II.6 of the Project; 
 
(d) 
the roads in Tonglu County to be constructed under Part II.7 of the 
Project; and  
 
(e) 
the wastewater treatment plant in Longyou County constructed in 
relation to the infrastructure of Part II.8 of the Project,  
 
all such activities as further specified in the respective RAP. 
 
10. 
The acronym “PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in 
Section I, Part A.1 paragraph (e) of the schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
11. 
The acronym “PMO” means the Project Management Office referred to in 
Section I, Part A.1 paragraph (d) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
12. 
The acronym “PPMO” means the Provincial Project Management Office referred 
to in Section I, Part A.1 paragraph (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 18, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
20
 
15. 
“Project Company” means, individually, each of the Project companies or 
agencies set forth in the third column of the table in Appendix 2 to this 
Agreement, which, in respect of each company is established and operating 
pursuant to its:  
 
(a) 
Charter issued on the date specified in the said table; specifically, in the 
fourth column of the same row as the Project Company concerned as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and  
 
(b) 
Business license issued by the relevant Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau on the date and with the license 
number specified in the said table; specifically, in the fifth and sixth 
columns of the same row as the Project Company concerned as the same 
may be amended from time to time;  
 
and any successor thereto; and “Project Companies” means, collectively, all such 
companies and agencies.  
 
16. 
“Project County/City” means, individually, each of the counties, cities and 
districts set forth in the second column of the table in Appendix 2 to this 
Agreement, and any successor thereto; and “Project Counties/Cities” means, 
collectively, all such counties, cities and districts. 
 
17. 
“Project Dams” means, collectively the Xin Fan Dam in Wucheng District of 
Jinhua City and the Qingshan Dam in Zhuji City, and “Project Dam” means, 
individually, either of such Project Dams. 
 
18. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “Zhejiang” means the Borrower’s Province of 
Zhejiang, and any successor thereto.  
 
19. 
“Project Participants” means, collectively, the Project Counties/Cities set forth in 
the second column of the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, and any 
successor thereto; and “Project Participant” means, individually, any of such 
Project Counties/Cities. 
 
20. 
“Qiantang River Basin” means the basin of the Qiantang river covering a total 
area of 49,113 km2 in five municipalities, including Hangzhou, Quzhou, Jinhua, 
Shaoxing and Lishui. 
 
21. 
The acronym “RAPs” means, collectively, the following plans which set out the 
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and 
the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on 
account of the execution of Parts I, II and III of the Project, as well as monitoring 
and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank: 
21
 
(a) 
the Consolidated Resettlement Plan with an annex of the RPF 
dated June 5, 2010; 
 
(b) 
Part I. 1 and I. 2 of the Project dated June 5, 2010; 
 
(c) 
Parts II. 1 through II. 8 of the Project dated June 5, 2010;  
 
(d) 
Part III of the Project dated June 5, 2010; and 
 
(e) 
the resettlement action plans to be prepared by the Project 
Participants pursuant to Section I, Part C.1(b)(ii) of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement and agreed to by the Bank.  
 
The acronym “RAP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
22. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework dated June 5, 2010, which sets out the policies and procedures for 
land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required 
during implementation of the activities described in Section I, Part C.1(b)(ii) of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of:  
 
(a)  
each Project Participant, activities under the Project to be carried out 
within its jurisdiction; and  
 
(b)  
each Project Company, activities under the Project to be carried by said 
Project Company within the jurisdiction of the Project Company 
concerned. 
 
24. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively:  
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between: (i) Zhuji 
City and Zhuji City Water Affairs Group Co. Ltd; and (ii) Wucheng 
District and Xinfan Reservoir Management Division of Wucheng District  
pursuant to Section I, part D.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement; and  
 
(b)  
the Subsidiary Implementation Agreements to be entered into between 
each of the remaining Project Participants and their respective Project 
Companies pursuant to Section I, part D.1(b) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and supplements to said agreements; 
22
and a “Subsidiary Implementation Agreement” means, individually, any 
of such Subsidiary Agreements. 
25. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section I, Part D.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
26. 
“Subsidiary Implementation Agreements” means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section I, Part D.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
27. 
“Training” means for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per diem for trainees 
attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars and the cost of 
delivering training (excluding consultant fees) such as rental of training space 
and training equipment and other logistical costs. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in paragraph 20 of the Appendix to 
the General Conditions is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, for a Conversion, the Execution Date or such other 
date as the Bank shall determine on which the Conversion enters into effect, as 
further specified in the Conversion Guidelines; provided that for a Conversion 
into the Approved Currency under Section 2.07 of the Loan Agreement, the 
Conversion Date shall be the date of withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
amount in respect of which the Conversion has been requested.” 
 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
23
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn14) or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection with the use 
of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has entered into an 
agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such 
person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such 
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any 
project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
24
APPENDIX 2
Name of
Project
Municipality/
Prefecture
Name of
Project
County/City/
District
Name of
Project
Company
Date
Of
Charter
Business
License Number
Date
of
Business License
Shaoxing
Zhuji City
Zhuji City Water Affairs Group Co. Ltd.
October 12, 2009
33068110081103
December 31, 2001
Tonglu County
Tonglu Jiangnan Township New Village Town
and Village Construction Co. Ltd.
December 6, 2007
330122000007322
October 26, 2006
Jiande City Xinanjiang Wastewater Treatment
Plant Co.
330182000004984 - March 10, 2009
Hangzhou
Municipality
Jiande City
Jiande City Urban Management & Law
Enforcement Bureau
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Wucheng
District
Xinfan Reservoir Management Division of
Wucheng District
133070200070 – March 3, 2003
Pan’an Industrial Park Development and
Investment Company Ltd.
May 22, 2007
330727000008942
September 28, 2009
Pan’an New Urban District Construction
Investment Co. Ltd.
March 29, 2004
3307271000743
April 4, 2004
Pan’an County
Pan’an County Yunshan Development
Construction and Development Co. Ltd.
April 13, 2009
330727000009927
April 21, 2009
Jinhua
Municipality
Lanxi City
Lanxi City Youbu Infrastructure Construction Co.
Ltd.
April 9, 2009
330781000021867
April 10, 2009
Qujiang
District
Qujiang District Urban Rural Construction
Development Co. Ltd.
April 20, 2009
330803000010057
May 5, 2009
Quzhou
Municipality
Longyou
County
Longyou County Longbei Economic
Development Company Co. Ltd.
April 24, 2007
330825000006907
February 9 2009
25
 
