 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
   LOAN NUMBER 7812-SV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Fiscal Management and Public Sector Performance Technical Assistance Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated March 16, 2011 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7812-SV 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated March 16, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars 
(US$20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal three million Dollars ($3,000,000) shall be converted from the 
initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in 
accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower, through MoF, shall carry out the Project, all in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 24, 2011.  
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Boulevard de los Héroes 1231 
San Salvador, El Salvador 
 
Facsimile: (503) 2225 – 7491; (503) 2244-6419 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
AGREED at San Salvador, Republic of El Salvador, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Carlos Enrique Cáceres Chávez 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Carlos Felipe Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the institutional capacity of specific 
government processes and agencies in order to increase the effectiveness and efficiency 
of revenue and expenditure management, and to enhance accountability and transparency 
in the public sector. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Strengthening Tax Collection Agencies 
 
1. 
Strengthen coordination among the DGII, DGA, and DGT to improve 
information sharing practices and increase common control procedures for better 
tax compliance, through, inter alia, the following activities: (a) the development 
of procedures to perform joint auditing and to improve controls and monitoring 
mechanisms; (b) the development of regulations and procedures to improve tax 
collection and compliance control systems; and (c) the provision of training to 
the DGII, DGA and DGT personnel on common auditing and control functions.  
 
2. 
Strengthen DGII’s institutional capacity through, inter alia, the following 
activities: (a) the redesign of relevant DGII’s strategies, norms and procedures; 
(b) the improvement of auditing processes and procedures; and (c) support of 
human resource management and tax-payers services. 
 
3. 
Strengthen DGA’s institutional capacity through, inter alia, the following 
activities: (a) the redesign of relevant DGA’s strategies, norms and procedures; 
(b) the development of a new customs management system, including the 
acquisition of software and equipment to improve physical controls over 
imported and exported goods and merchandise; and (c) the redesign of auditing 
and control processes and procedures. 
 
Part B: Modernizing of Public Expenditure and Financial Management 
 
1. 
Provide technical assistance, and acquire software and equipment for the 
development of norms and procedures to formulate, modify, execute, monitor, 
and evaluate the national budget with a medium term expenditure framework and 
performance-based management approach; and for the development of a 
programmatic classification in the budget. 
 
2. 
Design and implement of a single treasury account and electronic payments, 
through, inter alia, the following activities: (a) the design and implementation of 
automated and online procedures; (b) the development of cash-management 
- 6 - 
procedures; and (c) the promotion of institutional agreements between the MoF 
and commercial banks to execute electronic and automated transactions.  
 
3. 
Strengthen and upgrade SAFI and SIRH, through, inter alia, the following 
activities: (a) the redesign and upgrade of SIRH to allow its inter-operability with 
SAFI; (b) the acquisition of software and equipment; (c) the implementation of 
mechanisms to facilitate the production of accounting, financial, and economic 
reports according to international standards; (d) the provision of training to 
relevant governmental agencies personnel on public financial management; and 
(e) the upgrading and integration of associated information systems with the 
SAFI. 
 
4. 
Strengthen and modernize procurement systems through, inter alia, the following 
activities: (a) the evaluation and update of the regulatory framework for public 
procurement in all government agencies; and (b) the development of on-line 
procurement systems. 
 
5. 
Modernize public investment and debt management systems, through, inter alia, 
the following activities: (a) redesign and optimization of processes; and (b) 
provision of training to relevant governmental agencies personnel on public 
investment and debt management. 
 
Part C: Enhancing and Piloting Information Management and Public Sector 
Transparency Initiatives 
 
1. 
Support Eligible Initiatives to improve information and statistics management, 
access to public information, and public sector transparency.  
 
Part D: Project Coordination and Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance 
1. 
Strengthen capacities of the DINAFI, through, inter alia: (a) the hiring of 
specialized personnel, including a fiscal management advisor, financial 
management and procurement specialists; and (b) the provision of training for 
MoF personnel. 
 
- 7 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements and Operational Manual 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall create and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project, within the DINAFI, a Project Implementation Unit 
(PIU) to manage Project implementation with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts and other 
personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall create, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the 
project, a Project coordination committee, with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following: (a) 
facilitate Project coordination among involved Borrower’s agencies; and (b) 
review operational action plans and monitoring reports. 
 
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual, containing, inter alia: (a) the terms of reference, functions and 
responsibilities for the personnel of the PIU responsible for the coordination, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (b) the format of: (i) the unaudited 
interim financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; (ii) the Financial Statements; (c) the terms of reference for carrying 
out the audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (d) the 
Project indicators; and (e) the Project disbursement and procurement procedures. 
 
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
the Project Operational Manual, the Borrower shall carry out Part C of the 
Project in accordance with a manual (the Participation Agreement Manual), 
which shall contain, inter alia: (a) the criteria for the identification and selection 
of Participating Entities; (b) the criteria and mechanisms for the identification 
and selection of Eligible Initiatives; (c) the mechanisms for verification of 
compliance with the respective Eligible Initiative’s action plan; and (d) a model 
Participation Agreement. 
 
5. 
(a)  
For purposes of implementing Part C of the Project, the Borrower, 
through MoF, shall: (i) ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to carry 
out Eligible Initiatives; (ii) evaluate and, if applicable, approve proposals 
of Eligible Initiatives submitted by Participating Entities, in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in the Participation Agreement Manual;  
- 8 - 
(iii) consolidate the plans and reports submitted by the relevant 
Participating Entity; and (iv) monitor and review the implementation of 
the Eligible Initiative as carried out by the relevant Participating Entity. 
 
(b)  
For purposes of implementing the relevant Eligible Initiative, the 
Borrower, through MoF, shall enter into participation agreements (each, 
a Participation Agreement) with the relevant Participating Entity, under 
terms and conditions set forth in the Participation Agreement Manual and 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following:  
 
(i) 
The specific financial management, procurement and fiduciary 
arrangements applicable to the Eligible Initiative in question, all 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and in 
accordance with the procedures of the Participation Agreement 
Manual. 
 
(ii) 
The obligation of MoF to, inter alia: (I) evaluate and, if 
applicable, approve the action plans submitted by the 
Participating Entity during the execution of each Eligible 
Initiative; (II) conduct, when applicable, procurement processes 
on behalf of the Participating Entity; (III) exercise, when 
applicable, the financial management responsibilities pursuant to 
Section II.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (IV) when 
applicable, review, record, and sign contracts in connection with 
each Eligible Initiative.  
 
(iii) 
The obligation of the Participating Entity to: (I) prepare an action 
plan to carry out the relevant Eligible Initiative; (II) implement 
the activities of the Eligible Initiative, according to the action 
plan approved by MoF for the implementation of said Eligible 
Initiative; (III) comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines in 
the carrying out of the respective Eligible Initiative; (IV) prepare 
and submit project reports with regard to the implementation of 
the Eligible Initiative to MoF, pursuant to the Participation 
Agreement Manual; and (V) take or permit to be taken all 
actions to enable MoF to comply with its obligations under the 
Participation Agreement and this Agreement.  
  
6. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operational Manual, the 
Participation Agreement Manual, the Participation Agreements, and this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail. 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project and each and every Eligible Initiative 
under Part C of the Project be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
The Borrower (through MoF) shall, not later than June 30, 2012 (or any such 
later date as the Bank may agree in writing), cause an independent mid-term 
review to be carried out on the execution of the Project, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, covering the first two years of Project 
implementation.  
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through MoF, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
- 10 - 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Non-consultant Services. All goods and non-consultant services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consultant services. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
- 11 - 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least-Cost Based Selection 
(b) Quality-Based Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 12 - 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods, consultants’ 
 
services, Training, 
 
Operating Costs and Non-
 
consultant Services under 
 
Part A, B and D of the 
 
Project 
 
 
19,150,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, consultants’ 
 
services, Non-consultant 
 
Services and Training 
 
under Part C of the 
 
Project 
 
 
800,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
50,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
20,000,000 
 
 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “Non-consultant Services” means logistical service expenses for 
capacity building events, printing of training materials and media campaigns, as 
well as other services which are not rendered by consultants, obtained at 
reasonable cost on account of Project implementation and which are not covered 
in the definitions of Training and Operating Costs; 
 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs of locally 
contracted employees; and 
 
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means reasonable: (a) travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility 
rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses. 
- 13 - 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals under Category (1) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made within one year 
prior to this date but on or after December 1, 2009, for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
(b) 
for payments made to finance any expenditure under Category (2), unless 
the Borrower, through MoF, has provided the Bank with the Participation 
Agreement Manual, and said manual has been found satisfactory to the 
Bank.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014, or any later date as the Bank may agree 
and notify to the Borrower in writing. 
 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2015 
 
through August 15, 2039 
 
2% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
- 15 - 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
- 16 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“DGA” means Dirección General de Aduanas, the Borrower’s General Customs 
Directorate, as organized within MoF. 
 
5. 
“DGII” means Dirección General de Impuestos Internos, MoF’s General 
Directorate of Internal Revenue. 
 
6. 
“DGT” means Dirección General de Tesorería, the Borrower’s Treasury Office, 
as organized within MoF. 
 
7. 
“DINAFI” means Dirección Nacional de Administración Financiera, the 
Borrower’s National Financial Management Office as organized within MoF. 
 
8. 
“Eligible Initiative” means an activity or set of activities to be carried out by a 
Participating Entity in accordance with a Participation Agreement and the 
Participation Agreement Manual, and that aims to improve information and 
statistics management, access to public information, and/or public sector 
transparency, which activities comply with the selection criteria set forth to that 
effect in the Participation Agreement Manual. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008 and as further modified pursuant to Section II of this 
Appendix).  
 
10. 
“MoF” means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance. 
 
11. 
“Participating Entity” means a Borrower’s governmental agency which meets the 
selection criteria set forth in the Participation Agreement Manual to implement 
an Eligible Initiative, and has been selected according to the mechanisms set 
forth in the Participation Agreement Manual. 
- 17 - 
12. 
“Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.5 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which a Participating Entity will 
implement an Eligible Initiative, under Part C of the Project. 
 
13. 
“Participation Agreement Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
I.A.4, of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, as the same may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 19, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the unit referred to in Section 
I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual dated October 20, 2009, 
satisfactory to the Bank, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
18. 
“SAFI” means Sistema de Administración Financiera Integrado, the Borrower’s 
National Financial Management System.  
 
19. 
“SIRH” means Sistema de Información de Recursos Humanos, the Borrower’s 
Human Resources Information System. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
- 18 - 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 
 
 
