 
  
  
  
 CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8044-MK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
Energy Community of South East Europe Program 
 
(Additional Financing for the FYR Macedonia Component – AD MEPSO Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
and 
 
 
OPERATOR NA ELEKTROPRENOSNIOT SISTEM NA MAKEDONIJA, 
AKCIONERSKO DRUSTVO ZA PRENOS NA ELEKTRICNA ENERGIJA I 
UPRAVUVANJE SO ELEKTROENERGETSKIOT SISTEM VO DRZAVNA 
SOPSTVENOST-AD MEPSO SKOPJE 
 
 
 
Dated April 11, 2011  
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 8044-MK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated April 11, 2011, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and OPERATOR NA 
ELEKTROPRENOSNIOT SISTEM NA MAKEDONIJA, AKCIONERSKO DRUSTVO 
ZA 
PRENOS 
NA 
ELEKTRICNA 
ENERGIJA 
I 
UPRAVUVANJE 
SO 
ELEKTROENERGETSKIOT SISTEM VO DRZAVNA SOPSTVENOST- AD MEPSO 
SKOPJE (“Borrower” or “AD MEPSO”) a joint stock company established and operating 
under the laws of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (“Guarantor”) for the 
purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:   
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fourteen million Euro 
(€14,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
- 2 - 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from 
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a 
Fixed Spread. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following namely that the 
Resolution or the by-laws of the Borrower governing the Borrower’s activities, as 
amended to the  date of this Agreement, shall have been further amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, or the Guarantor shall have enacted 
new legislation or issued new directives, in such a way as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations or to 
comply with any of the covenants set forth in this Agreement. 
 
- 3 - 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following namely that any 
event  specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been finalized and 
adopted by the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its General Director.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
 
AD MEPSO 
 
ul. Orce Nikolov b.b. 
 
Skopje 1000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(389-2) 311-1160 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Skopje, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AD MEPSO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Dejan Boskovski 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Evgenij Najdov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the functioning of AD MEPSO in the 
context of the regional power market through financing investments necessary to 
rehabilitate and upgrade the power transmission network, increase the level of 
interconnection with neighboring power systems, and to strengthen the institutional 
capacity of AD MEPSO. 
 
The Project consists of Part B.1 of the Original Project, namely replacement of 
an existing 110kV transmission line from the Skopje 1 substation to the Tetovo 1 
substation to reduce outages and to reduce risks to the general public, and the following 
additional sub-component (c) under Part B.2 of the Original Project, namely the 
construction of a new line from the Stip substation to the border with the Republic of 
Serbia. 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall be responsible for 
the implementation of the Project, in a timely and effective manner, and shall carry out 
the Project, through its PIU, in accordance with the Project Operations Manual. 
 
2.  
The PIU shall be responsible for the coordination of Project procurement and 
financial management and the Borrower shall maintain the PIU until completion of the 
Project with sufficient resources, as well as with qualified and competent staff, including 
staff from AD MEPSO’s Office for International Cooperation.  
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Financial covenant  
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt, 
unless  the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately preceding the 
date of  such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such 
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum 
debt service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of 
the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(a) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred. 
 
 
(b) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(i) 
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and 
 
(ii) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
 
- 7 - 
(c) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(i) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and 
net non-operating income; and 
 
(ii) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including license 
fees, administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on 
debt. 
 
 
(d) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(i) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and 
 
(ii) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (i) above. 
 
D. 
Safeguards.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:   
1. 
Provide the Bank for its prior review and no objection, on a timely basis and in 
any event prior to the commencement of construction or implementation, with a draft of 
the EMP prepared in accordance with the requirements of the EAFD for each of the 
Borrower’s proposed investments financed under the Project;  
 
2. 
provide the Bank for its prior review and no objection, on a timely basis and in 
any event prior to the commencement of construction or implementation, with a draft of 
the LAP prepared in accordance with the requirements of the LAFP, for each of the 
Borrower’s proposed investments financed under the Project; and 
 
3. 
(a) implement the EAFD, the EMPs, the LAFP and LAPs in accordance with 
their respective terms, and apply and implement, as the case may be, the criteria, policies, 
procedures and arrangements therein respectively set forth; and (b) not amend or waive, 
or permit to be amended or waived the EAFD, the EMPs, or the LAFP or the LAPs, or 
any provision of any one thereof without the prior agreement of the Bank. 
- 8 - 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank, and including specific 
environmental reports and land acquisition reports providing results of the monitoring 
programs undertaken in accordance with the FEAP and the LAFP, as the case may be.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to 
in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
- 9 - 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Shopping 
 
(b) 
Direct Contracting 
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(b) 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 10 - 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) 
Goods, 
including 
supply and installation, 
and consultants’ services 
for the Project 
 
13,965,000 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
       35,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
14,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2014. 
 
- 11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2017  
 
through May 15, 2032 
 
 
 
3.13% 
On November 15, 2032 
2.97% 
 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
- 12 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 13 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“AD MEPSO” means Operator Na Elektroprenosniot Sistem Na Makedonija, 
Akcionersko Drustvo Za Prenos Na Elektricna Energija I Upravuvanje So 
Elektroenergetskiot Sistem Vo Drzavna Sopstvenost- AD MEPSO Skopje, a joint 
stock company established and operating pursuant to Resolution No. 23-3343/1 
of the Government of the Guarantor, dated September 27, 2004, whose Charter 
and By-laws were published in the Official Gazette of the Guarantor, dated 
December 27, 2004, under Number 92/2004 and amended and re-published in the 
Official Gazette of the Guarantor, dated February 12, 2008, under Number 21/08, 
and which was registered on December 31, 2004 in the Trade Register of Basic 
Court Skopje I under the number 02060952?-4-09-000 pursuant to Registration 
Resolution No. 558/2004 issued by the Registration Court. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
5. 
“EAFD” means the Environmental Assessment Framework Document, dated 
February 16, 2011, prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank 
describing the environmental issues, mitigation, monitoring and institutional 
measures for the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“EMPs” means, collectively, the Environmental Management Plans prepared by 
the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, dated August 2005, in respect of the 
expansion of the Skopje 5 substation, dated September 2005, in respect of the 
construction of the 400 kV interconnection transmission line between the 
Guarantor and the Hellenic Republic, dated December 31, 2010 in respect of the 
construction of each of the Bitola and Skopje-Tetovo overhead transmission 
lines, and dated December 31, 2010 in respect of the construction of the 400 kV 
interconnection transmission line between the Guarantor and the Republic of 
Serbia as well as the environmental management plans to be prepared by the 
Borrower in consultation with the Guarantor and pursuant to the EAFD, 
satisfactory to the Bank, in connection with the Borrower’s additional 
investments in power lines and substations financed under the Project, in each 
- 14 - 
case setting forth the measures to be taken during the implementation and 
operation of the investments to avoid or reduce adverse environmental impacts, 
and the actions needed to implement these measures. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
8. 
“LAP” means a site-specific land acquisition plan required to be prepared 
pursuant to Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 in accordance with the requirements of 
the LAPF for each of the Borrower’s investments financed under the Project, 
satisfactory to the Bank, in each case setting forth the measures to be taken 
during the implementation and operation of the investments to avoid or reduce 
adverse social impacts, and the actions needed to implement these measures”. 
 
9. 
“LAPF” means the Land Acquisition Policy Framework, dated February 16, 
2011, prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank describing the 
principles and procedures for the acquisition of land required for investments 
under the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
10. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for Loan Number 4814-
MK (AD MEPSO Project) between the Borrower and the Bank, dated April 19, 
2006, as amended up to and including the date of this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
  
12. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the Borrower in 
July 2005, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 25, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the operations manual to be adopted by the 
Borrower and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, describing and setting forth procedures for 
implementation of the Project and institutional arrangements, consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement and with applicable laws and regulations and 
including, among other things, the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects 
and procedures for implementation of the Project, including the financial 
- 15 - 
management 
procedures 
(budgeting, 
accounting 
and 
internal 
control, 
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and 
external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of 
accounts), procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, 
other fiduciary and administrative arrangements. 
 
16. 
“Resolution” means Resolution No. 23-3343/1 of the Government of the 
Guarantor, dated September 27, 2004, pursuant to which the Borrower was 
established and is operating. 
