CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8010-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Scholarships Program for Strengthening Reforming Institutions Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 18, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8010-ID 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
March 
18, 
2011, 
between 
REPUBLIC 
OF        
INDONESIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twelve million six 
hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($112,650,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or un-withdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the National Development 
Planning Agency in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Operations Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3
(b) 
The National Development Planning Agency Project Implementation 
Unit has been established by the Borrower in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I.A.9 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Ministry of Finance Project Implementation Unit has been 
established by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I.A.13 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its minister responsible for finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Directorate General of Debt Management 
Ministry of Finance 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
 
Cable:  
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY 45799  
DJMLN-IA 
 
62-21-381-2859 
Jakarta  
 
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
4
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Stefan Koeberle 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to build Participating Agencies’ capacity by: 
(a) strengthening their human resources in core functional areas; and (b) enhancing their 
ability to initiate and manage reforms. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Degree Scholarships for Ministry of Finance
(a) 
Competitive selection of candidates, and provision of pre-departure 
language training to selected candidates. 
 
(b)  
Award of scholarships for overseas and joint domestic and overseas 
(link) degrees to successful candidates in fields relevant to the work of 
the Ministry of Finance. 
 
2. 
Degree and Non-Degree Scholarships for Other Participating Agencies
(a) 
Competitive selection of candidates, and provision of pre-departure 
language training to selected candidates. 
 
(b)  
Award of scholarships for domestic, overseas, and joint domestic and 
overseas (link) degrees and overseas and domestic non-degree training to 
successful candidates in fields relevant to the work of the respective 
Participating Agency other than the Ministry of Finance. 
 
3. 
Program and Project Support
(a) 
(i) 
Scholarships program management, including matching of 
scholars to institutions and courses, payment of tuition fees to 
institutions and living and supplies stipends to scholars, and 
monitoring of scholars. 
 
(ii)  
Provision of support to the Project Coordination Unit and the 
Project Implementation Units in relation to Project management, 
implementation, 
including 
administrative 
and 
financial 
management, disbursement, and procurement, and monitoring 
and evaluation. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Carrying out of annual technical audits of scholarships program 
compliance 
with 
scholar 
eligibility, 
selection, 
and 
6
implementation procedures as set out in the Project Operations 
Manual. 
 
(ii) 
Carrying out of: (A) a scholarships program alumni survey in 
relation to satisfaction with the program; and (B) a broader 
Participating Agency staff assessment in relation to program 
impact on Agency capacity development. 
 
(iii) 
Development and implementation of a scholar re-entry and 
career development program for the Participating Agencies. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for Project management, implementation, 
including administrative and financial management, disbursement, and 
procurement, and monitoring and evaluation in accordance with the following 
arrangements. 
 
Steering Committee
2. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for the provision of policy and strategic 
orientation to the Project through the Steering Committee.  As such, the 
Borrower shall, through the Steering Committee: (a) assess the readiness and 
authorize the appropriate level of participation of each Participating Agency; (b) 
review and approve, no later than each October 31 throughout Project 
implementation, the annual work plans and budgets of the Participating Agencies 
prior to their consolidation and submission to the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of Part F of this Section I; (c) review, no later than each November 30 
throughout Project implementation, the Project Operations Manual, authorize, 
prior to their submission to the Bank for approval, any revisions to such manual 
proposed by the Project Coordination Unit, and adopt, no later than each 
December 31 throughout Project implementation, such revisions as may be 
approved by the Bank; and (d) review the performance of Participating Agencies 
and take appropriate action to improve performance, including reallocation of 
funds and removal of a Participating Agency or inclusion of a new one as 
necessary, subject to the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
 
3. 
To this end, the Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the 
Steering Committee, with a composition, institutional framework, functions, and 
resources satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank as shall be required for 
purposes of Project implementation. 
 
National Development Planning Agency
4. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for Project management through the National 
Development Planning Agency. 
 
8
Project Coordination Unit 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for Project management and the 
implementation, 
including 
administrative 
and 
financial 
management, 
disbursement, and procurement, and monitoring and evaluation of Parts 3 (a) (ii) 
and (b) of the Project through the Project Coordination Unit, in coordination with 
the respective Participating Agency in relation to Part 3 (b) (iii) of the Project. 
 
6. 
To this end, the Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the 
Project Coordination Unit, with an adequate institutional framework, functions, 
and resources, including competent personnel in adequate numbers, satisfactory 
to the Borrower and the Bank as shall be required for purposes of Project 
implementation. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall, no later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, 
appoint, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, a 
consulting or other firm through the Project Coordination Unit for purposes of 
implementation of Part 3 (b) (i) of the Project. 
 
National Development Planning Agency Project Implementation Unit 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for the implementation, including 
administrative and financial management, disbursement, and procurement, and 
monitoring and evaluation of Parts 2 and 3 (a) (i) of the Project with respect to 
Participating Agencies other than the Ministry of Finance through the National 
Development Planning Agency Project Implementation Unit. 
 
9. 
To this end, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout 
Project implementation, under the supervisory authority of the National 
Development Planning Agency, the National Development Planning Agency 
Project Implementation Unit, with an adequate institutional framework, 
functions, and resources, including competent personnel in adequate numbers, 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank as shall be required for purposes of 
Project implementation. 
 
10. 
The Borrower shall, no later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, 
appoint, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, 
consulting or other firms through the National Development Planning Agency 
Project Implementation Unit for purposes of implementation of each of 
Parts 3 (a) (i) and (ii) and (b) (iii) of the Project. 
 
11. 
The Borrower shall appoint, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule, consulting or other firms through the National Development 
Planning Agency Project Implementation Unit for purposes of implementation 
of each of Parts 3 (b) (ii) (A) and (B) of the Project, such that the results of the 
9
survey to be carried out under the former are furnished to the Bank no later than 
one (1) month prior to the midterm review referred to in Section II.C of this 
Schedule and the results of the assessment to be carried out under the latter are 
furnished to the Bank no later than one (1) month prior to the Closing Date 
indicated in Section IV.B.2 of this Schedule. 
 
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Finance Project Implementation Unit 
 
12. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for the implementation, including 
administrative and financial management, disbursement, and procurement, and 
monitoring and evaluation of Parts 1 and 3 (a) (i) of the Project with respect to 
the Ministry of Finance through the Ministry of Finance Project Implementation 
Unit. 
 
13. 
To this end, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout 
Project implementation, under the supervisory authority of the Ministry of 
Finance, the Ministry of Finance Project Implementation Unit, with an adequate 
institutional framework, functions, and resources, including competent personnel 
in adequate numbers, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank as shall be 
required for purposes of Project implementation. 
 
B. 
Service Agreement 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 3 (a) (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into a service agreement with the firm referred to in Part A.10 of this 
Section I in this regard, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Bank, which shall include the obligation of such firm to ensure that: 
(a) 
Part 3 (a) (i) of the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Part E of this Section I; 
(b) 
Part 3 (a) (i) of the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Transparency and 
Accountability Action Plan; 
(c) 
Part 3 (a) (i) of the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Operations Manual, and without any right or 
authority, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, to 
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, 
abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof; and 
10 
(d) 
each Scholarship Activity is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the respective Scholarship Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such service agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be 
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision 
thereof. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
2. 
The Borrower: 
 
(a) 
shall: (i) adopt, as part of the Project Operations Manual, a plan, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, setting out 
measures to reinforce Project governance, enhance the transparency of 
Project 
activities, 
increase 
public 
accountability, 
and 
reduce 
opportunities for collusion, corruption, or fraud under the Project 
(“Transparency 
and 
Accountability 
Action 
Plan”); 
and (ii) thereafter ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of such plan; and 
 
(b) 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, 
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision 
thereof, except as provided for in Part A.2 (c) of this Section I. 
 
3. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such plan and those of this 
Agreement, the latter shall govern. 
 
D. 
Manual 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
(i) adopt the Project Operations Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, setting out implementation, 
organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation, financial 
management, disbursement, and procurement arrangements for purposes 
of Project implementation, and the Transparency and Accountability 
Action Plan; and (ii) thereafter ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of such manual; and 
11 
(b) 
not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, 
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision 
thereof, except as provided for in Part A.2 (c) of this Section I. 
 
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such manual and those of this 
Agreement, the latter shall govern. 
 
E. 
Scholarships 
1. 
General
The Borrower shall review and approve applications for Scholarships, and 
thereafter monitor and evaluate Scholarship Activities, through the Ministry of 
Finance Project Implementation Unit with respect to Part 1 of the Project and the 
National Development Planning Agency Project Implementation Unit with 
respect to Part 2 of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of this Part E 
and the Project Operations Manual. 
 
2. 
Eligibility 
No proposed Scholar shall be eligible for a Scholarship unless, on the basis of a 
review conducted in accordance with this Part E and the Project Operations 
Manual, the proposed Scholar is deemed to satisfy the eligibility criteria specified 
below and in further detail in the Project Operations Manual, which shall include 
the following: 
 
(a) 
the proposed Scholar: (i) has been nominated by his / her employing unit 
for an eligible program and field of study as identified in the respective 
Participating Agency or directorate’s Human Capital Development Plan; 
(ii) meets the age and academic performance requirements set out in the 
Project Operations Manual; (iii) is a full member of the Borrower’s civil 
service if s/he is employed by the Ministry of Finance, and has been in 
the Borrower’s civil service for a minimum of two (2) years if s/he is 
employed by a Participating Agency other than the Ministry of Finance; 
(iv) has performed satisfactorily on academic potential and English 
language tests; (v) has performed satisfactorily in an interview; and      
(vi) has successfully completed pre-departure language training or 
cultural orientation, as the case may be; and 
 
(b) 
the proposed academic institution for the Scholarship Activity meets the 
quality assurance standards set out in the Project Operations Manual. 
 
12 
3. 
Terms and Conditions
(a) 
A Scholarship Activity shall be carried out pursuant to a Scholarship 
Agreement, to be concluded between the Borrower, represented by the 
respective Participating Agency, and the Scholar under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, described in 
further detail in the Project Operations Manual, which shall include the 
following: 
 
(i) 
a description of the Scholarship Activity, its budget, and the 
applicable performance indicators; 
 
(ii) 
provision of the Scholarship on a grant basis; 
 
(iii) 
the obligation of the Scholar to carry out and successfully 
complete the Scholarship Activity: (A) with due diligence and 
efficiency; and (B) in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower, and the Project Operations Manual; 
 
(iv) 
the obligation of the Scholar to furnish to the Borrower records 
reflecting the carrying out of the Scholarship Activity upon 
completion of each academic term and the Scholarship Activity; 
 
(v) 
the requirements that: (A) the proceeds of the Scholarship shall 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Scholarship 
Activity; and (B) the goods and non-consulting services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Scholarship shall be procured 
in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy, 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Scholarship Activity; and 
(vi) 
the right of the respective Participating Agency, on behalf of the 
Borrower, and of the Borrower in its own right, to: (A)  obtain 
all information as it, or the Bank, shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation, and financial condition 
of the Scholarship Activity; and (B) suspend or terminate the 
right of the Scholar to use the proceeds of the Scholarship, or 
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the 
Scholarship then withdrawn, as the case may be, upon failure by 
the Scholar to perform any of his obligations under the 
Scholarship Agreement.
13 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Scholarship Agreement 
in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Scholarship, and, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or 
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
 
F. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets 
 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for approval as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than November 30 of each year, the annual work plan and budget 
for the Project for each subsequent year of Project implementation, of 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
except for the annual work plan and budget for the Project for the first 
year of Project implementation, which shall be furnished no later than 
one (1) month after the Effective Date; and 
 
(b) 
thereafter ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with such 
plans and budgets as approved by the Bank. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar year, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
No. 
Indicator 
Project Objective 
1. 
Increase in percentage of Participating Agency staff with competencies in the 
core priority areas of the respective Agency, as identified in the needs 
assessment in the respective Agency’s Human Capital Development Plan 
14 
2. 
Percentage of Participating Agency staff expressing satisfaction with the 
impact of the scholarships program on Agency capacity building, based on 
the survey of such staff carried out under Part 3 (b) (ii) (B) of the Project 
Parts 1 and 2 of the Project 
3. 
Preparation of a Human Capital Development Plan, identifying required key 
competencies and staff skills gaps in core priority areas, for each of the 
Participating Agencies 
4. 
Percentage of Scholars participating in academic programs in fields of study 
identified in the needs assessment in the respective Agency’s Human Capital 
Development Plan 
5. 
Percentage of Scholars (calculated on an annual basis) selected in accordance 
with the applicable procedures as set out in the Project Operations Manual, as 
verified by the technical audit of the scholarships program carried out under 
Part 3 (b) (i) of the Project 
6. 
Percentage of Scholars (calculated on an annual basis) completing their 
academic program with a grade point average greater than 3.0 
Part 3 of the Project 
7. 
Adoption of satisfactory scholar re-entry policies for the Participating 
Agencies for purposes of the scholar re-entry and career development 
program to be developed and implemented for the Participating Agencies 
under Part 3 (b) (iii) of the Project 
8. 
Use of database and tracer studies for tracking placement and career 
progression of returned Scholars 
9. 
Percentage of scholarships program alumni expressing satisfaction with the 
program, based on the alumni survey carried out under Part 3 (b) (ii) (A) of 
the Project 
(c) 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, 
information as follows for the period covered by such report: (i) the names of 
Scholars and their Participating Agencies and academic institutions; (ii) the 
respective Scholarship amounts; and (iii) the academic performance of the 
Scholars. 
 
B. 
Annual Reviews 
 
The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank, no later than one (1) month 
after the submission of each Project Report to the Bank, such report, and 
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of such report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
15 
C. 
Midterm Review 
 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank, no later than three (3) years after the 
Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project 
implementation, as measured against the performance indicators referred 
to in Section II.A.1 (a) of this Schedule.  Such review shall include an 
assessment 
of 
the 
following: 
(i) overall 
progress 
in 
Project 
implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities; 
(iii) progress on implementation of annual work plans and budgets; 
(iv) progress on procurement and disbursement; (v) implementation 
arrangements; and (vi) the need to make any adjustments to the Project 
and reallocate funds to improve performance; 
 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, at least three (3) months before such 
review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank, needed to undertake the review, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c)  
review, jointly with the Bank, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
D. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
16 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Goods and non-consulting services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consulting services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Direct Contracting 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
17 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Least-Cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(d) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(e) Single Source Selection 
 
(f) Selection of Service Delivery Contractors 
 
(g) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
18 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) 
Goods, non-
consulting services, 
consultants’ services, 
Training, and Operating 
Costs for the Project 
 
$9,950,000 
100% 
(2) 
Scholarships 
$102,700,000 
100% of the amounts 
disbursed 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$112,650,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall, no later than one (1) year after the Effective Date, develop and 
adopt, through each of the Participating Agencies, a scholar re-entry policy, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, for purposes of the scholar re-entry 
and career development program to be developed and implemented for the Participating 
Agencies under Part 3 (b) (iii) of the Project. 
19 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 1, 2020 
2.17 
October 1, 2020 
2.22 
April 1, 2021 
2.28 
October 1, 2021 
2.34 
April 1, 2022 
2.40 
October 1, 2022 
2.46 
April 1, 2023 
2.52 
October 1, 2023 
2.58 
April 1, 2024 
2.64 
October 1, 2024 
2.71 
April 1, 2025 
2.78 
October 1, 2025 
2.85 
April 1, 2026 
2.92 
October 1, 2026 
2.99 
April 1, 2027 
3.07 
October 1, 2027 
3.14 
April 1, 2028 
3.22 
October 1, 2028 
3.30 
April 1, 2029 
3.38 
October 1, 2029 
3.47 
April 1, 2030 
3.56 
October 1, 2030 
3.65 
April 1, 2031 
3.74 
October 1, 2031 
3.83 
April 1, 2032 
3.93 
October 1, 2032 
4.02 
20 
April 1, 2033 
4.12 
October 1, 2033 
4.23 
April 1, 2034 
4.33 
October 1, 2034 
4.44 
April 1, 2035 
4.71 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
21 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
22 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants” dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“Audit Board” or “BPK” (Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan) means the Borrower’s 
independent supreme audit entity responsible for audits of the management and 
accountability of state finances, or any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Bureaucracy Reform” means the program designed to ensure that state 
apparatuses are improved through bureaucracy reform to enhance the 
professionalism of state apparatuses and to create better governance, both at the 
national and the regional levels, and to be able to support successful development 
of other sectors, and set forth or referred to in the Borrower’s Law No. 17/2007 
dated February 5, 2007 and Regulation No. PER/15/M.PAN/7/2008 dated 
July 10, 2008. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
5. 
“Financial and Development Supervisory Board” or “BPKP” (Badan 
Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan) means the Borrower’s entity 
responsible for state financial accountability and implementation of the 
government’s internal control system, or any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
7. 
“Human Capital Development Plan” means the plan of a Participating Agency 
(as hereinafter defined) or a directorate of a Participating Agency (as hereinafter 
defined) linking its institutional development plan with its training needs, as the 
same may be modified from time to time, and such term includes any annexes or 
schedules to such plan. 
 
8. 
“Investment Coordination Board” or “BKPM” (Badan Koordinasi Penanaman 
Modal) means the Borrower’s ministry-level entity responsible for investment 
promotion, or any successor thereto. 
 
23 
9. 
“Ministry for Administrative and Bureaucracy Reform” or “MenPAN dan RB” 
means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for administrative and bureaucracy 
reform, or any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for finance, or 
any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Ministry of Finance Project Implementation Unit” means the Borrower’s entity 
referred to in Section I.A.13 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and whose 
responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.12 of such Schedule, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
12. 
“National Civil Service Agency” or “BKN” (Badan Kepegawaian Negara)
means the Borrower’s entity responsible for the management of the civil service, 
or any successor thereto. 
13. 
“National Development Planning Agency” means Badan Perencanaan 
Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower’s ministry-level entity responsible for 
development planning, or any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“National Development Planning Agency Project Implementation Unit” means 
the Borrower’s entity referred to in Section I.A.9 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and whose responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.8 of such 
Schedule, or any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“National Institute of Public Administration” or “LAN” (Lembaga Administrasi 
Negara) means the Borrower’s entity responsible for the provision of training in 
public administration, or any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“National Land Agency” or “BPN” (Badan Pertanahan Nasional) means the 
Borrower’s entity responsible for land administration, or any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures under 
the Project, based on the annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.F 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as approved by the Bank, and incurred by the 
Borrower for purposes of Project management, implementation, and monitoring 
and evaluation, on account of utilities and supplies, bank charges, 
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space 
rental, building and equipment maintenance, public awareness-related publicity 
and media expenses, travel and subsistence, and salaries of contractual and 
temporary staff, but excluding salaries, bonuses, fees, or honoraria of members of 
the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
18. 
“Participating Agencies” means the: (i) Audit Board; (ii) Financial and 
Development Supervisory Board; (iii) Investment Coordination Board; 
24 
(iv) National Civil Service Agency; (v) National Land Agency; (vi) Ministry for 
Administrative 
and 
Bureaucracy 
Reform; 
(vii) 
Ministry 
of 
Finance; 
(viii) Ministry of Foreign Affairs; (ix) Ministry of Home Affairs; (x) National 
Development Planning Agency; (xi) National Institute of Public Administration; 
as the same may be modified from time to time in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I.A.2 (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “Participating Agency” 
means any one (1) of said entities. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 9, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
21. 
“Project Coordination Unit” means the Borrower’s entity, under the supervisory 
authority of the National Development Planning Agency, established and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Borrower’s 
Ministerial 
Decree 
No. 58/M.PPN/HK/09/2010 
dated 
September 
16, 
2010, 
and 
whose 
responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or 
any successor thereto. 
 
22. 
“Project Implementation Units” means, collectively, the Ministry of Finance 
Project Implementation Unit and the National Development Planning Agency 
Project Implementation Unit. 
 
23. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, referred to in 
Section I.D.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be modified 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term 
includes any annexes or schedules to such manual. 
 
24. 
“Scholar” means a staff member of a Participating Agency to whom or for whose 
benefit a Scholarship (as hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to be made in 
accordance with the eligibility criteria specified in Section I.E.2 (a) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and in further detail in the Project Operations Manual. 
 
25. 
“Scholarship” means a cash award made or proposed to be made to a Scholar out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a Scholarship Activity (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to a Scholarship Agreement (as hereinafter defined). 
 
26. 
“Scholarship Activity” means a specific activity carried out under Parts 1 (b) or 
2 (b) of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a Scholarship in 
25 
accordance with the eligibility criteria specified in Section I.E.2 (b) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and in further detail in the Project Operations Manual. 
 
27. 
“Scholarship Agreement” means an agreement, referred to in Section I.E.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, between the Borrower, represented by the 
respective Participating Agency, and a Scholar, setting forth the terms and 
conditions governing a Scholarship. 
 
28. 
“Steering Committee” means the Borrower’s entity, established and operating 
pursuant to its Ministerial Decree No. 58/M.PPN/HK/09/2010 dated 
September 16, 2010, whose responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto. 
 
29. 
“Training” means the cost of training financed under the Project, based on the 
annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement as approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, 
and study tours, along with the cost of travel and subsistence for training 
participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and 
reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to course 
preparation and implementation. 
 
30. 
“Transparency and Accountability Action Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, 
referred to in Section I.C.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may 
be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and 
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5 (a) and a new Section 5 (b) is added to 
read as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn 13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
26 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank-financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross-debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government-owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8 (b) of the Procurement 
Guidelines or participate under paragraph 1.11 (c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board set forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank.  In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and 
otherwise 
be 
made 
known 
to 
staff 
and 
other 
stakeholders.”
 
