 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8022-IN 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
(Second Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
INDIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated May 30, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
May 
30, 
2011, 
between 
INDIA 
(“Borrower”)  
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such  
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable 
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause Karnataka to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project 
Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that 
KRDCL’s Memorandum and Articles of Association has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of KRDCL to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
- 3 - 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following: Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretary 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India 
North Block  
New Delhi 110001, India 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
91-11-2309 4075 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 - 
 
AGREED at Bangalore, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
INDIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Venu Rajamony  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Hubert Nove-Josserand  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to accelerate the development of Karnataka’s Core 
Road Network through leveraging public sector outlays with private sector financing, and 
the improvement of the institutional effectiveness of road sector agencies to deliver 
effective and safe roads to users.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Road Improvement 
 
(1) 
Supporting the improvement of Karnataka’s Core Road Network through 
traditional contracts, including engineering and advisory consulting services, and 
associated land acquisition, resettlement, rehabilitation, and environmental 
management activities. 
(2) 
Supporting the improvement of Karnataka’s Core Road Network through PPP 
concessions, including engineering and advisory consulting services, and 
associated land acquisition, resettlement, rehabilitation, and environmental 
management activities. 
Part B: Highway Financing Modernization 
 
(1) 
Strengthening the capacity of KRDCL to expand private sector participation in 
highway development and to undertake fiscally prudent market borrowing. 
(2) 
Supporting KRDCL in developing highways with co-financing from other 
financial institutions or through PPP concessions with private sector developers, 
including engineering and advisory consulting services, and associated land 
acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation activities. 
(3) 
Strengthening Project management through the provision of operating costs to 
KRDCL. 
Part C:  Road Safety Improvement 
 
(1)        Implementing a result-based safe corridor demonstration program on selected 
corridors. 
(2) 
Strengthening the capacity of TD and its traffic and road safety cell to fulfill its 
lead agency functions.  
- 6 - 
 
(3) 
Strengthening the capacity of PWD staff in integrating road safety and work zone 
safety in the planning and asset management processes. 
(4) 
Establishing a centre of excellence for road safety training, education and 
research. 
Part D:  Road Sector Policy and Institutional Development 
Supporting the implementation of a medium-term Institutional Development and  
Strengthening Action Plan for the period 2010-2016 and strengthening Project 
management through the provision of operating costs to the PIU. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
Availability of Funds 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to Karnataka in accordance with the Borrower’s standard 
arrangements.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan. 
 
Anti-Corruption 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and those of the GAAP. 
 Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
 
The Borrower shall cause Karnataka to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed 
with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain and cause Karnataka to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause Karnataka to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Designated Account referred to in Section 2.04 of 
the General Conditions audited and shall cause Karnataka to have the Project 
- 8 - 
 
Financial Statements audited, all in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Designated Account 
and the Project Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year 
of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal 
was made under Project.  The audit reports for the Designated Account and the 
audited Project Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
except that the contract packages for goods and works, for which advance 
procurement action has been initiated before December 31, 2010,  as specified in 
the Procurement Plan, shall be procured in accordance with the Guidelines: 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in May 
2004 and Revised October 2006, and May 2010, and with the provisions of this 
Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, except that the contracts for consultants services, for which advance 
procurement action has been initiated before December 31, 2010, as specified in 
the Procurement Plan, shall be procured in accordance with the Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published 
by the Bank in May 2004 and Revised October 2006, and May 2010, and with 
the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
- 9 - 
 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional provisions agreed 
upon from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank and referred 
to in the Procurement Plan) 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)    Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e)  Single Source Selection 
(f)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
- 10 - 
 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Consultants’ services, 
training, studies, 
Incremental Operating 
Costs under Parts A.1, A.2,  
C, and D of the Project  
24,000,000 
80% 
(2) Consultants’ services, 
training, studies, 
Incremental Operating 
Costs under Parts B.1, B.2, 
and B.3 of the Project 
5,300,000 
80% 
(3) Goods and works under 
Parts A.1, C, and D of the 
Project 
         120,825,000 
80% 
(4) Goods and works under 
Part A.2 of the Project 
         137,000,000 
100% 
(5) Goods and works under 
Part B.2 of the Project 
           62,000,000 
100% 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
 
 
              875,000 
 
 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(7) Premium for Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
 
 
                 0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
350,000,000 
 
- 11 - 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after May 1, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); or   
 
(b) 
under Category (5), until KRDCL has entered into a co-financing 
arrangement with a financial institution, or a concession agreement with 
a private sector developer, acceptable to Karnataka and the Bank, for 
developing selected corridors under Karnataka’s Core Road Network. 
 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2016  
 
through September 15, 2028 
 
 
3.85% 
On March 15, 2029 
3.75% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
- 13 - 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
  
- 14 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
4. 
“Core Road Network” means the road network designated by Karnataka as core 
road network.  
 
5. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
6. 
“Environment Management Plans” or its acronym “EMPs” means, collectively, 
the environmental management plans prepared for the Project, all dated 
November 30, 2010 acceptable to the Bank, which plans set out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with the written agreement 
of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental to 
the Environmental Management Plans. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” mean the financial year of the Borrower, commencing on April 1 
and ending on March 31 of each year. 
 
8. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual dated February 14, 2011, 
acceptable to the Bank, which sets out the financial management arrangements 
under the Project, and as such manual may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank. 
 
- 15 - 
 
9. 
“GAAP” the governance and accountability action plan, dated February 14, 2011 
which sets out the key actions to be undertaken by PWD and KRDCL to 
strengthen governance, transparency, and accountability under the Project, as 
such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
11. 
“Grievance Redressal Committee” means the committee referred to in  
paragraph 1(d) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
12. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental costs directly related to the 
Project including, inter alia, incremental office expenses for the Project; salaries 
of contractual staff; and travel expenses and per diem. 
 
13. 
“Institutional Development and Strengthening Action Plan” means the plan, 
dated February 14, 2011, developed for improving the institutional capacity of 
PWD, KRDCL, and other related road agencies.  
 
14. 
“Karnataka” means the State of Karnataka, a state of India, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
15. 
“KRDCL” means Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited, 
constituted and existing under the Borrower’s Companies Act 1956, as amended, 
or any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, 
Works, and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 14, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“Project Governing Board” means the governing board referred to in  
paragraph 1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Karnataka. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementation Unit” means the unit referred to in paragraph 1(c) of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
- 16 - 
 
21. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 1(b) 
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
22. 
“PPP” means public-private partnership. 
 
23. 
“PWD” means the Public Works, Ports and Inland Water Transport Department 
of Karnataka.  
 
24. 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated October 21, 2010 acceptable to 
the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the entitlement framework, land acquisition 
and 
compensation 
payment 
procedures, 
institutional 
arrangements, 
implementation schedules, monitoring and coordination mechanism, and cost 
estimates for the resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the 
implementation of the Project; as said plan may be revised from time to time with 
the written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and 
annexes supplemental to the RAP.  
 
25. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the resettlement policy framework 
described in chapter II of the RAP, dated October 21, 2010, setting out the 
policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, 
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, entitlement 
matrix, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans as may be required 
for Project activities under Part B.2 of the Project, as said frameworks may be 
revised from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said 
framework.  
 
26. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means, in the case of PWD, Parts A, C, and D 
of the Project, and in case of KRDCL, Part B of the Project. 
 
27. 
“TD” means the Transport Department of Karnataka. 
 
 
 
