 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8089-UA 
 
     
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(Additional Financing for the Second Export Development Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
JOINT STOCK COMPANY “THE STATE EXPORT-IMPORT  
BANK OF UKRAINE” 
 
 
 
 
Dated October 4, 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated October 4, 2011, between the JOINT STOCK COMPANY  
“THE STATE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE” (UKREXIMBANK) (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Original Loan Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million United 
States Dollars (US$150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread ; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15th and November 15th in each year.  
2 
 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate effective debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and this Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the 
Statutes of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
3 
 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
4 
 
 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
5.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of signing of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Chairman of the Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Joint Stock Company “The State Export-Import  
Bank of Ukraine” 
127, Gorkogo Str. 
Kyiv, 03150 
Ukraine 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile:  
 
131258 RICA  
38044 247 8082 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5 
 
 
AGREED at Kiev, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Martin Raiser 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
JOINT STOCK COMPANY “THE STATE EXPORT-
IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE” 
 
 
 
By /s/ Mykola Mykolayovych Udovychenko 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
6 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide medium and long term working 
capital and investment finance to private exporting enterprises to assist the Guarantor’s 
private exporting sector; and (b) further improve the ability of the banking sector to 
provide financial resources to the enterprise sector through development of 
intermediation by expanding private financial institutions’ lending products. 
 
The Project consists of Part A of the Original Project.   
 
 
 
7 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1.  
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PIU, and ensure 
that the PIU functions at all times in a manner and with staffing and budgetary resources 
necessary and appropriate for Project implementation, and satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Operations 
Manual. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Operations Manual or any provision thereof without obtaining the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank on a quarterly basis, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank and the Guarantor by not later than 45 days after 
the end of each calendar quarter throughout the implementation of the Project, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matters. 
 
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall: 
  
 
(a) 
select PBs pursuant to criteria set forth in paragraph A.1 of the Annex to 
this Schedule; 
 
 
(b) 
relend to PBs from the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 2 of Part A of Section IV of this 
Schedule  under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower 
and each such PB, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
8 
 
Bank, and which shall include without limitation, those set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule; 
 
(c) 
lend directly to Beneficiary Enterprises under Sub-Loan Agreements to 
be entered into between the Borrower and each such Beneficiary Enterprise, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including without limitation 
those set forth in the Attachment and Annex to this Schedule and set forth in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(d) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the aggregate 
amount of all Sub-loans and Lease Financing made provided to any one Beneficiary 
Enterprise, or group of connected Beneficiary Enterprises, from the Borrower and all PBs 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000;  
 
(e) 
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the 
PBs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements in 
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
 
(f) 
take or cause to be taken all actions necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable the PBs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the PBs therein set forth, and not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; 
and 
 
 
(g) 
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Guarantor and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
C. 
Safeguards 
 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in compliance with the environmental 
review procedures and shall ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with 
environmental review procedures set forth in the Operations Manual and shall ensure that 
all measures necessary for carrying out the environmental reviews, shall be taken in a 
timely manner.   
D.  
Financial Requirements 
1.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, during the 
implementation of the Project, take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be 
necessary to maintain the following indicators of sound financial performance: 
9 
 
(a)  
minimum risk-weighted capital (as defined by IFRS and NBU) adequacy 
ratio of at least 10%; 
(b) 
single-insider lending exposure not exceeding 5% of the Borrower’s 
IFRS based regulatory capital; aggregate insider lending exposure not 
exceeding 30% of the Borrower’s IFRS based regulatory capital; single 
exposure per single borrower not exceeding 25% of the Borrower’s IFRS 
based regulatory capital; total large exposures not exceeding 8 times the 
Borrower’s IFRS based regulatory capital; foreign currency position 
fully compliant with the applicable NBU requirements; liquidity ratios 
fully compliant with the applicable NBU requirements; 
(c) 
 continues to operate on a profitable basis; and 
(d) 
is in compliance with applicable banking regulations and prudential 
regulations of the Guarantor as duly certified by the Borrower every six 
(6) months. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank and copied, with the exception of the information which is protected by 
law or which constitutes a bank secrecy under Ukrainian law, to  the Ministry of 
Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine  not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
10 
 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be: (a) furnished to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period; and (b) made 
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank and 
which complies with prevailing Ukrainian banking laws and regulations. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).  All goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits”, dated May 2004, revised October 2006 & May 2010 (the 
Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, dated 
May 2004, revised October 2006 & May 2010 (the Consultant Guidelines), and 
with the provisions of this Section.  
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)  
 
1. 
Open Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B.2 of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of open competitive bidding 
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Such procedures shall include but not be 
limited to international advertising and also in specialized national printed and 
electronic editions, clear and non-discriminatory bid evaluation criteria, sufficient 
time for bid preparation, public bid opening, fair and transparent bid evaluation, 
and a clear and effective complaints mechanism. Contracts placed by sub-
borrowers on their subsidiary or affiliated companies will not be eligible for 
financing out of the Loan. 
 
2. 
Commercial Practices. Contracts for: (a) goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of less than $5,000,000 per contract; and (b) works estimated to cost the 
11 
 
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 per contract, may be awarded in accordance 
with the established commercial practices of the Beneficiary Enterprise, due 
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and 
efficiency and reliability thereof and availability of maintenance and spare parts. 
Contracts placed by sub-borrowers on their subsidiary of affiliated companies 
will not be eligible for financing out of the Loan. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods for Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part C.2 of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national 
consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Procedures 
 
2.1 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2.2 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2.3. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2.4 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under 
the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such 
contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (i) all contracts 
procured on the basis of open competitive bidding; and (ii) all contracts procured 
12 
 
under Section C of this Schedule. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 1, 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
1. Sub-loans and Lease  
 
Financing 
 
2. Front end Fee 
 
149,625,000 
 
 
 
375,000 
100% 
 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
150,000,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made from the Loan Account: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
 
(b)       under Category 1 unless the Sub-loan or the Lease Financing has been made in 
accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Operations Manual and 
13 
 
on terms and conditions referred to in the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, and, in the case of a Sub-loan or Lease Financing to be made 
by a PB, that the Borrower has provided: (i)  a  copy of a  Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement entered into between the Borrower and such PB; and (ii) a legal 
opinion, satisfactory to the Bank,  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to 
in (i) of this sub-paragraph has been duly authorized or approved and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the PB in accordance with its terms. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
Section V. 
Access to Information 
 
The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any information related to the 
Legal Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to information, in effect at the 
time of such disclosure. 
 
14 
 
 
ANNEX 
TO 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
 
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Annex shall apply for the 
purposes of paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
A. 
Eligibility Criteria 
 
1. 
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a PB, duly established 
and operating in the territory of the Guarantor, in respect of which the Borrower shall 
have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, that: 
 
 
(a) 
the PB: 
 
(i) 
is a privately owned, domestically registered and licensed 
commercial bank and has been in operation for at least the three 
(3) previous uninterrupted consecutive years;  
 
 
(ii) 
has minimum assets during each of the last two fiscal years 
exceeding UAH 500 million equivalent on average, has export 
loans-to-total loans ratios during each of the last two fiscal years 
(for which data are available) exceeding a minimum of 10% on 
average, and has minimum paid-in statutory capital of 
€10,000,000; 
 
 
(iii) 
has its annual unqualified audit of its financial statements 
according to IFRS available for at least two previous years;  
 
 
(iv) 
is in compliance with applicable banking regulations and 
prudential regulations of the Guarantor and eligibility criteria in 
paragraph (v) below as duly certified by the PBs’ management 
every six (6) months and external auditors every twelve (12) 
months, including inter alia, NBU promulgated prudential 
regulations regarding capital adequacy, large exposures, related 
lending, and foreign currency exposures; 
 
 
(v) 
has: risk weighted capital adequacy ratio (CAR) not less than 
10% calculated according to IFRS and NBU regulations; single 
insider lending exposure not exceeding 5% of its IFRS based 
regulatory capital; aggregate insider lending not exceeding 30% 
of its IFRS based regulatory capital; single exposure per single 
borrower not exceeding 25% of its IFRS based regulatory 
15 
 
capital; total large exposure not exceeding 8 times its IFRS based 
regulatory capital; long open currency position and short open 
currency position, in compliance with NBU regulations; liquidity 
quick ratio not less than  20%, liquidity current ratio not less 
than 40%, liquidity short-term ratio not less than60%, calculated 
according to NBU regulations; 
 
 
(vi)  
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and 
procedures acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower, and the 
Guarantor, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and 
procedures; 
 
 
 
(vii) 
has agreed to submit to the Borrower, during the duration of its 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower, an audit report 
which: (i) covers two (2) previous years of its operations; (ii) is 
prepared by an independent and internationally recognized audit 
firm in accordance with International Auditing Standards and 
International Financial Reporting Standards; and (iii) except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, contains an unqualified audit 
opinion; 
 
 
 
(viii) 
has adequate organization, management, staff and other 
resources necessary for its efficient operation; and 
 
(ix) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and 
monitoring of Export Development Sub-projects, including for 
the efficient evaluation and supervision of the procurement and 
environmental elements of Export Development Sub-projects. 
B.  
Terms 
2. 
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to a PB under 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall: (a) be denominated in Dollars; and (b) be 
the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans and Lease 
Financing to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement providing for such Subsidiary Loan. 
3. 
Each Subsidiary Loan shall: (a) be charged semi-annually, on the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate equal to 
the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement plus the administrative costs of the 
Borrower and a credit risk margin acceptable to the Bank; (b) be charged a front-end fee 
of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) and such other fee that might be charged by the 
Guarantor to the Borrower and transaction costs agreed from time to time between the 
Borrower and the Bank; and (c) be repaid in accordance with an amortization schedule 
calculated to have a maturity of not more than six (6) years, including a grace period of 
not more than three (3) years. 
16 
 
 
4. 
The right of a PB to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan shall be: 
(a) suspended upon failure of such PB to perform any of its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with any of the 
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Section A of this Annex; and (b) terminated 
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a 
continuous period of sixty (60) days. 
 
C. 
Conditions 
 
5. 
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective PB shall undertake to: 
 
(a) 
carry out activities under the Project and conduct its operations and 
affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, with qualified 
management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity with the investment and 
lending policies and procedures referred to in the Operations Manual and with the 
provisions of Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other 
than the Borrower, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the purpose; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
make Sub-loans and Lease Financing to Beneficiary Enterprises 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Operations Manual, 
including, without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Attachment to this Annex; 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
aggregate amount of all Sub-loans and Lease Financing made to 
any one Beneficiary Enterprise, or group of connected 
Beneficiary Enterprises, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$10,000,000; 
 
 
 
(iii) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan and each 
such Lease Financing in such manner as to protect its interests 
and the interests of the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank, 
comply with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; 
 
(iv) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements 
providing for Sub-loans, or Lease Financing, or any provision 
thereof, without the prior approval of the Borrower;  
 
 
 
(v) 
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the 
carrying out by the Beneficiary Enterprises of Sub-projects, in 
accordance with the Operations Manual; 
 
17 
 
(vi) 
ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental 
review procedures set forth in the Operations Manual.  To that 
end, PBs shall require each Beneficiary Enterprise applying for a 
Sub-loan or Lease Financing to furnish evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank showing that the Sub-project in respect of which the 
application has been prepared in accordance with such 
procedures; 
 
(vii) 
ensure that for Export Development Sub-projects which require 
an environmental mitigation plan, the Beneficiary Enterprise 
shall carry out such environmental mitigation plan in a timely 
manner, requiring such environmental mitigation plan to be in 
compliance with: (aa) environmental standards satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (bb) the applicable laws and regulations of the 
Guarantor relating to health, safety and environmental 
protection, and shall include adequate information on the 
carrying out of such environmental management plans in the 
progress reports referred to in subparagraph (c) (ii) of this 
paragraph; and   
 
(viii) 
ensure that: (aa) goods, works and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
and (bb) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Export Development Sub-
project; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
exchange views with and furnish all such information to the 
Bank or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the 
Bank and the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its 
activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Project; 
 
(ii) 
prepare and submit to the Borrower quarterly reports on Sub-
loan and Lease Financing disbursements and repayments, and 
annual reports on the progress made in achieving the objectives 
outlined in the business plans submitted with the Sub-loan and 
Lease Financing applications; and 
 
(iii) 
promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
 
(d) 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition; and 
18 
 
 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank such information concerning said records 
and accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request;  
 
(e) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree: (i) open and 
thereafter maintain on its books, in accordance with its normal financial practices and on 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank,  separate accounts to which it shall credit, as the case 
may be, each payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal payments 
under, any Sub-loan or Lease Financing; and (ii) utilize all amounts so credited to said 
separate accounts, to the extent they are not yet required to meet said PB’s payment or 
repayment obligations to the Borrower under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
preferably to finance additional development projects to further the development of the 
Guarantor’s export sector; and  
 
(f) 
assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan and Lease Financing. 
19 
 
ATTACHMENT TO  
THE ANNEX TO  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans   
and Lease Financing 
 
The provisions of this Attachment shall be for the purposes of on-lending by the 
Borrower and on-lending by PB’s. 
 
1. 
Each Sub-loan and Lease Financing shall be made on terms and conditions, 
including those relating to the maturity, foreign currency denomination, interest rate and 
other charges determined in accordance with the Borrower’s, or the respective PB’s, 
investment and lending policies and practices referred to in Part A of the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, provided, however, that, in the case of PBs, the interest 
rate to be charged on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, shall equal to at least to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the 
Subsidiary Loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Section B of Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement plus the administrative costs and an appropriate credit risk 
margin. 
 
2. 
No expenditures for an Export Development Sub-project by a PB shall be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless: 
 
 
(a) 
the first two Sub-loans and two Lease Financings by the said PB for such 
Export Development Sub-projects shall have been approved by the Bank and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty (180) days 
prior to the date on which the Borrower shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Section in respect of such Sub-loan 
and Lease Financing; or  
 
 
(b) 
the Sub-loan and Lease Financing by the said PB for such Export 
Development Sub-project shall have been, respectively, a free-limit Sub-loan and a free-
limit Lease Financing for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and 
eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the Borrower shall have received the 
application and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Section in respect of 
such Sub-loan and Lease Financing.  For the purposes of this Agreement: (i) a “free-limit 
Sub-loan” and “free-limit Lease Financing” shall be a Sub-loan and Lease Financing 
respectively, other than the first two Sub-loans or Lease Financing by each PB, and other 
than any Sub-loan and Lease Financing to a Beneficiary Enterprise in an amount 
exceeding the sum of $5,000,000 equivalent (when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans 
and free-limit Lease Financing respectively financed or proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to the same Beneficiary Enterprise), the foregoing amount being 
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank. 
 
20 
 
3. 
(a) 
When presenting a Sub-loan and Lease Financing (other than a free-limit 
Sub-loan and free-limit Lease Financing) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with:  
 
 
 
(i)  
a description of the Beneficiary Enterprise and an appraisal of 
the Export Development Sub-project, including a description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan;  
 
(ii) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan and Lease 
Financing, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-
loan and Lease Financing;  
 
 
 
(iii) 
evidence of compliance with the Operations Manual and 
specifically with the environmental review procedures set forth 
in the Operations Manual; and 
 
 
 
(iv)  
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
 
(b) 
Each Sub-loan and Lease Financing shall be approved on the basis of 
evaluation guidelines adopted by the Borrower satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the 
Operations Manual. 
 
4. 
(a) 
Sub-loans and Lease Financing shall be made to the Beneficiary 
Enterprises which each shall have established and maintained during the duration of its 
respective Sub-loan and Lease Financing to the satisfaction of the Borrower that:  
 
(i) 
it is a Private Enterprise; 
 
(ii) 
it is an exporter/prospective exporteer of goods and services 
originating in the territory of the Guarantor or a tourism- related 
enterprise providing services to non-residents and /or  generating 
foreign exchange proceeds in the Guarantor’s territory; 
 
(iii) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, it 
will have a ratio of debt to equity (after receipt of the Sub-loan 
or Lease Financing) no greater than 80:20;  
 
(iv) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, it 
will not incur any debt unless a forecast of its revenues and 
expenditures shows that its estimated cash flow for each fiscal 
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 
1.3:1 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year 
on all its debt, including the debt to be incurred; and 
 
 
 
(v)  
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other resources required for 
21 
 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying 
out of the Export Development Sub-project.   
 
 
(b) 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
 
 
(i) 
an enterprise shall be considered to be a “Private Enterprise” 
when more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares or other equity 
interest thereof is held by persons or companies other than the 
Guarantor, any agency or subdivision thereof, or any local 
governmental authority, or entities controlled by the Guarantor 
or such agencies or subdivisions; 
 
 
 
(ii) 
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Beneficiary 
Enterprise;   
 
(iii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment, on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into; 
 
(iv) 
the term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Beneficiary 
Enterprise not allocated to cover specific liabilities; and 
 
 (v) 
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments of, and interest and other charges on, 
debt. 
 
5. 
The Sub-loans and Lease Financing shall be made for Export Development Sub-
projects which are each determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank set forth in the Operations Manual, to: 
 
 
(a) 
be technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable; 
 
 
(b)  
be targeted towards generation of exports consistent with the Beneficiary 
Enterprise’s export growth projections; and 
 
 
(c) 
be in compliance with the requirements pertaining to environmental 
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor and the 
environmental review procedures set forth in the Operations Manual. 
 
6. 
Sub-loans and Lease Financing shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower or 
the PB, as the case may be,  shall obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary 
22 
 
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect its interests and 
those of the Bank, the Borrower, and the Guarantor, including the right to: 
 
 
(a) 
require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out and operate the facilities 
financed under the Export Development Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards, the 
provisions of Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other 
than the Borrower and to maintain adequate records; 
 
 
(b) 
without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph (a), require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out and operate the Export 
Development Sub-project with due regard to applicable social impact, ecological, 
environmental and pollution control standards and in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operations Manual; 
 
 
(c) 
for Export Development Sub-projects which need an environmental 
mitigation plan, require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out such environmental 
mitigation plan in a timely manner; 
 
 
(d) 
require: (i) that the goods, works and services  to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loans and Lease Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2, Section III to this Agreement; and (ii) that such goods, works 
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Export Development 
Sub-project; 
 
 
(e) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank 
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the 
Export Development Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents; 
 
 
(f) 
require that: (i) the Beneficiary Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan and Lease Financing 
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; 
 
 
(g) 
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Export 
Development Sub-project; and 
 
 
(h) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Sub-loan and Lease Financing upon failure by such Beneficiary 
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower or the PB. 
23 
 
  
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15th and November 15th  
 
Beginning November 15, 2017 
through November 15, 2040 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.08% 
On May 15, 2041 
 
 
2.24% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
24 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
 
 
25 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits 
and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Beneficiary Enterprise” means an enterprise satisfying the appropriate criteria as 
set forth in paragraph 4 of the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
to which the Borrower or a PB proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan and/or Lease 
Financing (as defined hereinafter). 
4. 
“Environmental Impact Assessments” or “EIAs” means the assessment to be 
carried out for Sub-projects (as defined) requiring such assessment in accordance with the 
requirements of the Operations Manual. 
5. 
 “Environmental Review” means the environmental review in the Operations 
Manual describing the environmental, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures 
to be undertaken under the Project to ensure that all environmental concerns are 
adequately taken into account in the carrying out of the Project. 
6. 
 “Export Development Lease Financing” or “Lease Financing” means a financing 
provided or to be provided by the Borrower or a PB out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of the 
expenditures incurred by a Beneficiary Enterprise for goods, works and services under an 
Export Development Sub-Project. 
7. 
“Export Development Sub-loan” or “Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed 
to be made by the Borrower or a PB out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of the expenditures incurred by a 
Beneficiary Enterprise for goods, works and services under an Export Development Sub-
Project. 
8. 
“Export Development Sub-Project” or “Sub-project” means a specific project, 
selected in accordance with paragraph 5 of the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried out by a Beneficiary Enterprise, in whole 
or in part through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-loan or a Lease Financing. 
9. 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section II.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
26 
 
10. 
 “Free-limit Lease Financing” means a Lease Financing proposed to be provided 
in an amount less than the threshold specified for prior Bank review under paragraph 2 
(b) of the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for an Export 
Development Sub-project which qualifies to be approved by the Borrower in the absence 
of such prior review pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph. 
11. 
 “Free-limit Sub-loan” means a Sub-loan proposed to be made in an amount less 
than the threshold specified for prior Bank review under paragraph 2 (b) of Attachment to 
the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for an Export-Development Sub-project 
which qualifies to be approved by the Borrower in the absence of such prior review 
pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph. 
12. 
 “International Financial Reporting Standards” or “IFRS” means the accounting 
standards issued or endorsed by the International Accounting Standards Board. 
13. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators 
set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under the Project 
to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to which the 
objectives thereof are being achieved. 
14. 
“National Bank of Ukraine” or “NBU” means the Guarantor’s central bank. 
15. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual developed and agreed by the Borrower 
and setting forth the detailed Project institutional, implementation, administrative and 
monitoring arrangements thereunder, including the operational and administrative 
procedures for the Borrower and PBs in respect of the preparation, approval, processing, 
financing, implementation and supervision of Sub-loans and Lease Financing, as updated 
from time to time. 
16. 
“PIU” means the project implementation unit of the Borrower established on 
October 15, 1996 pursuant to the Borrower’s Order No. 255, or any successor to such 
unit.  
17. 
“Participating Bank” or “PB” means a commercial bank which is at least fifty 
percent (50%) privately owned, registered and licensed according to the national 
legislation of the Guarantor and selected by the Borrower pursuant to criteria set forth in 
paragraph A.1 (a) of Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
18. 
 “Statutes” means the Decree No. 29/92 of the President of Ukraine, dated 
January 3, 1992 “On the Establishment of the State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine”; the 
Order No. 189 of the President of Ukraine, dated April 27, 2000 “On the Transformation 
of the State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine into a Joint Stock Company”; the Charter of 
the Borrower approved by the Resolution No. 1250 of the Cabinet of Ministers of 
Ukraine, dated September 10, 2000; and such other laws, decrees, license, charters or 
regulations governing the operations of the Borrower as may be adopted or enacted from 
time to time. 
27 
 
19. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
20. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means an agreement entered or to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a PB pursuant to Section I.4 (b) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  
21. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
22. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
23. 
 “Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement between the Borrower 
and the Bank dated September 26, 2006 for the Second Export Development Project, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
24. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 
and May 2010.  
 
 
 
 
 
