CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7999-RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Preservation and Promotion of Cultural Heritage Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 23, 2011 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7999-RU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 23, 2011, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
-2- 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOC, with the assistance of FISP, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
FISP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Agency 
Agreement in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the Agency Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or FISP to carry out the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely: any event 
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
-3- 
(a) 
the Agency Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower, represented 
by the MOF and MOC, and FISP, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
(b) 
the Borrower has established the Inter-ministerial Committee with a composition 
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(c) 
the MOC has adopted the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Agency 
Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and FISP and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and the FISP in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance or authorized Deputy Minister 
of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097 Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex:  
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
112008  
 
 
 
 
(7-495) 925-0889 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-4- 
AGREED at Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By /s/ Andrey E. Busygin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support the conservation, safekeeping and 
promotion of cultural heritage assets in Leningrad, Pskov, Novgorod and Tver oblasts of the 
Borrower; and (ii) to strengthen regional capacity for cultural heritage management so it supports 
the socio-economic development of the Participating Oblasts.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Integrated Heritage Site Development 
 
(a) 
Rehabilitation and improvement of cultural heritage sites and institutions
Carrying out a program of Sub-projects to support the rehabilitation, improvement, 
safekeeping and conservation of cultural heritage sites with strong cultural significance: 
 
(i) 
support to large-scale, integrated site development and management Sub-projects 
consistent with regional (oblast level) development plans, to finance the 
conservation of built heritage and other site interventions; and  
 
(ii) 
support to small scale local Sub-projects aiming at improving existing cultural 
heritage sites and institutions, enhancing their appeal to visitors and value for 
local populations.  
 
(b) 
Capacity building for integrated site development
Provision of consultants’ services and Training to build the capacity of oblasts, 
municipalities and state cultural institutions with a view to improving cultural 
development, including: 
 
(i) 
activities required to improve the capacity of the Participating Oblasts in cultural 
heritage management and, specifically, in linking cultural heritage with economic 
and social development; 
 
(ii) 
pre-identified Training and capacity building specific to Sub-project investments 
as well as additional support identified by a Beneficiary to ensure the effective 
implementation of a proposed Sub-project; and 
 
(iii) 
exchange of experiences between Beneficiaries to promote knowledge and 
innovation sharing.   
 
Part 2. Protection of Museum Assets  
 
Support the Borrower’s efforts in protecting and promoting the moveable cultural 
heritage assets of Russia, through:   
-6- 
 
(a) 
Improvement of collection management, conservation and storage
Improving the management of museum collections of the Leningrad Oblast through the 
development of enhanced conservation and storage practices and capacity, including: (i) 
the carrying out of an in-depth institutional and physical needs assessment for the 
development of a conservation and storage strategy; (ii) targeted technical assistance to 
improve the management of collections, including, inter alia, spatial management, 
conservation, reporting practices and practices for electronic management of collections; 
and (iii) the construction of a Multifunctional Museum Facility, for conservation, 
research and training purposes, including laboratories and studios for various types of 
items and materials (e.g., works on paper, wood, canvas; metal, porcelain, etc.) and 
serving as a regional hub for providing professional culture and art services. 
 
(b) 
Development and testing of museum security practices
(i) 
Development of practical guidelines and specifications to promote the 
installation of modern security systems, including training guidelines for museum 
guards and security personnel, based on the specific category and characteristics 
of cultural institutions; and 
 
(ii) 
installation and testing of modern security equipment and provision of related 
training in selected cultural institutions in Participating Oblasts.  
 
Part 3.  Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Support to MOC and FISP for the management, implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project, including the development of impact monitoring mechanisms 
for Sub-projects and the financing of Operating Costs; and support to the Borrower for 
the preparation of follow-up operations in the cultural sector. 
 
-7- 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
MOC shall be responsible for the overall management and implementation of the Project. 
The Inter-ministerial Committee shall be responsible for overall coordination of activities 
under the Project, and for approving Sub-projects under Part 1 (a) of the Project. The 
Borrower shall ensure that, at all times throughout the duration of the Project, the Inter-
ministerial Committee functions in a manner, and with resources necessary for the 
successful management and implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
FISP shall be responsible for day-to-day Project management and implementation, 
including financial management, disbursement, procurement, safeguards compliance and 
reporting arrangements. To this end, the Borrower shall cause FISP to establish adequate 
coordination mechanisms with each Participating Oblast to ensure: (a) effective and 
continuous communication with all stakeholders; and (b) close support for Sub-projects 
preparation and implementation.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, at all times throughout the duration of the Project: (a) cause FISP to 
perform in accordance with the Agency Agreement all the obligations of FISP therein set 
forth; and (b) maintain FISP, and ensure that it has the resources, is staffed by personnel 
with qualifications and under terms of reference, and functions at all times in accordance 
with procedures necessary and appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a)  
cause MOC, FISP and Participating Oblasts to perform the Project in a timely 
manner and in accordance with the Project Operational Manual, and to apply and 
implement the actions, criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements therein set 
forth; and  
 
(b)  
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived said Manual or any 
provisions thereof, except with the prior written approval of the Bank. 
 
B. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project. 
 
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
ensure that sufficient annual allocations be made in the Borrower’s budget for the 
Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project. 
-8- 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption. 
 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause FISP and Participating Oblasts to ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines. 
D. 
Sub-projects. 
1. 
For purposes of Part 1 (a) of the Project, the MOC, through FISP, shall ensure: (a) the 
selection and approval of Sub-projects in accordance with the eligibility criteria and 
selection procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and (b) the conclusion 
of a Sub-project Agreement between the MOC and each Beneficiary for purposes of Parts 
1 (a) (i) and 1 (a) (ii) of the Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and  
specified in the Project Operational Manual, which shall include the following:  
(i)  
The financing of the Sub-project shall be on a grant basis. 
 
(ii)  
The MOC, through FISP, shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and 
those of the Bank, including the right to: (A) suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the financing provided for the relevant Sub-
project upon the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the 
related Sub-project Agreement; and (B) require each Beneficiary to: (I) carry out 
its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards 
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual, the Environmental Management Framework, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, the site specific Environmental Management 
Plan and Resettlement Action Plan when required and the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the 
Borrower; (II) provide the resources required for the purpose; (III) maintain 
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in 
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-
project and the achievement of its objectives; (IV) enable the Borrower and the 
Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents; and (V) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing. 
 
2. 
The MOC, through FISP, shall exercise its rights under each Sub-project Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the MOC shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-project Agreement or any of its provisions 
without a prior agreement with the Bank. 
E. 
Safeguards. 
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause FISP and each Beneficiary to ensure that: 
-9- 
 
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the respective terms of the 
Environmental 
Management 
Framework 
and 
the 
Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework; and 
 
(b) 
the Environmental Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework, or any provision thereof, shall not be amended, suspended, 
abrogated, terminated or waived or permitted to be amended, suspended, 
abrogated, terminated or waived, except with the prior written approval of the 
Bank.   
2. 
The Borrower, through the MOC, shall ensure that when required by the Resettlement 
Policy Framework: 
(a) 
a specific Resettlement Action Plan, including the relevant social assessment, 
will be prepared in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank prior to 
execution of a respective work contract; and 
 
(b) 
no works will be started under any Sub-project unless all affected people are 
fully compensated in accordance with the provisions of a respective Resettlement 
Action Plan.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MOC, shall ensure that when required by Environmental 
Management Framework a site specific Environmental Management Plan will be 
prepared in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank prior to commencement of any 
works under a respective Sub-project.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through FISP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months following the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through 
FISP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
-10- 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through FISP, shall have Financial Statements audited in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, provided that the 
first and last audit periods may, with the agreement of the Bank, cover a period of up to 
eighteen (18) months. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule 2 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
-11- 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualification 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Individual Consultant 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Procurement of Operating Costs 
 
Incremental expenditures included in the Operating Costs category, with the exception of 
expenditures for Project audit, office equipment and furniture, can be procured in 
accordance with the established Borrower’s administrative procedures acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. The 
Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain one or more designated 
accounts in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.04(a) of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
-12- 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services and Training for the 
Project, except for Part 2 (a) of 
the Project  
90,300,000 
43% 
(2) 
Goods, 
works 
and 
consultants’ services 
under 
Part 2 (a) of the Project 
4,200,000 
12% 
(3) Operating Costs 
5,500,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
100,000,000.00 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2017.
-13- 
ANNEX  
to  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
Contracts for goods or works for which Part B of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations of the Borrower. 
In order to assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be modified as 
set forth in the following paragraphs. 
 
Eligibility
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall be 
placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those imposed by 
primary boycotts. 
 
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on requirements to 
joint-venture with national firms. 
 
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration 
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified foreign 
bidders are not excluded from participating. 
 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of place of registration, 
ownership, small size, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source of labor, material 
or equipment. 
 
5. 
Government-owned entitles shall be eligible to participate in bidding for contracts if they 
can establish that they are legally and financial autonomous, operate under commercial law and 
are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
 
Standard Bidding Documents
6. 
Until a modified version of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been approved 
for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
 
Advertising bidding opportunities; time for bid preparation
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least 30 days for bid preparation and submission of bids 
(excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelves goods or standard specification 
commodities or small value works)  
 
8. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurements involving large or complex contracts 
shall be advertised.  
-14- 
 
9. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post qualification) 
shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so specified shall be used to 
determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders which are deemed not qualified to 
bid shall not be further considered and shall be rejected. 
 
Bid opening
10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be considered 
and shall be returned unopened.  
 
Rebidding
11. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received provided 
that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed capable of 
performing the contract.  
 
Bid evaluation
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and evaluation 
criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so specified shall be 
used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of bids for goods and works 
contracts.  
 
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be present during 
evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to any bidder until the 
successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
 
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as 
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw material 
deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
 
15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be applied. 
Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder. 
 
16. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior to 
contract award.  
 
-15- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2017  
 
through April 15, 2027 
 
4.55% 
On October 15, 2027 
4.45% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
-16- 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-17- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the Borrower, 
represented by MOF and MOC, and FISP pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
which shall include terms specifying the responsibilities of FISP in respect of 
management and implementation of the Project, including compliance with the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, the Project Operational Manual, the Environmental Management 
Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, and making available to FISP, on a 
non-reimbursable basis, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table set forth in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
2. 
 “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006 with modifications set forth in Section III of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means, respectively, for purposes of Part 1 (a) (i) of the Project, a 
Participating Oblast, and for purposes of Part 1 (a) (ii) of the Project, a cultural 
institution, applied for, or selected for carrying out a Sub-project. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Part A.2 Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
6. 
 “Environmental Management Framework” means the environmental management 
framework dated January 26, 2010, prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the 
Bank, describing environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures 
required for the Project and to be taken to eliminate adverse environmental impacts, 
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement 
said measures, including guidelines and procedures for the preparation of site specific 
Environmental Management Plans and “chance finds” procedures.  
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means a site specific environmental 
management plan, setting forth the mitigation and monitoring measures required to be 
taken to avoid or minimize adverse environmental impacts, to be prepared and 
implemented in a manner fully consistent with the Environmental Management 
Framework, and “Environmental Management Plans” means said Plans, collectively.  
 
8. 
“FISP” means St. Petersburg Foundation for Investment Projects, a non-commercial 
foundation 
established 
pursuant 
to 
Resolution 
of 
the 
Governor 
of  
St. Petersburg No. 331-p, dated October 28, 1996, and registered by the Registration 
-18- 
Chamber of St. Petersburg, under Certificate of Registration No. 43863, dated March 4, 
1997, and which is the party to the Agency Agreement. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
10. 
“Inter-ministerial Committee” means the Borrower’s committee established pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“MOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Culture or any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental costs associated with the administration 
of FISP, including: Project audit, staff salaries, training, including study tours and 
seminars, social charges, office and vehicle rental, maintenance and minor refurbishing of 
office and equipment, office equipment, furniture, materials and supplies, communication 
costs, support for information systems, translation expenses, bank charges, and travel and 
per diem costs of FISP staff directly associated with implementation of Project activities, 
and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic 
budgets acceptable to the Bank. 
 
14. 
“Participating Oblasts” means the Leningrad, Novgorod, Pskov and Tver oblasts of the 
Russian Federation and “Participating Oblast” means individually any of the said oblast. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 
2010. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
September 17, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
17. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the MOC pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement, setting forth procedures and rules related to Project 
implementation, including the eligibility criteria and selection procedures for Sub-
projects. 
 
18. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means a resettlement action plan for a site specific 
resettlement; to be prepared and implemented in a manner fully consistent with the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, and “Resettlement Action Plans” means said Plans, 
collectively.  
 
19. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the resettlement policy framework, satisfactory 
to the Bank, dated January 26, 2010, prepared by the Borrower and setting forth, inter 
alia: (i) the description of areas covered by the Project; (ii) the legal basis and screening 
process for land acquisition, resettlement and land use in connection with works and 
-19- 
construction activities to be carried out under the Project; (iii) the resettlement principles 
and entitlements of Project affected people based on different categories of impact; (iv) 
the procedures for valuation, compensation and other assistance provided to the affected 
people, including the grievance process; and (v) the responsibilities, procedures and 
requirements for the development and implementation of site specific Resettlement 
Action Plans. 
 
20. 
“Sub-project” means a specific investment under Part 1. (a) of the Project, selected by the 
Inter-ministerial Committee, in accordance with Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Project Operational Manual. 
 
21. 
“Sub-project Agreement” means an agreement executed between the MOC and a 
Beneficiary for the purposes of Part 1. (a) of the Project and referred to in Part D of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
22. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and 
other training activities, not included under goods or service providers’ contracts, 
including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, travel, accommodation 
and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers’ fees, and other training related 
miscellaneous costs. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration 
by another financier that the Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project 
Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financing made by such financier 
or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the 
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive 
or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by 
such financier.” 
2. 
The following definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified as follows, and the 
following new definitions are added in alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows: 
 
-20- 
 (a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Variable Rate” is modified, in relevant part, to read as 
follows: 
 
“(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an amount of 
the Withdrawn Loan Balance that accrues interest at a variable rate during the 
Conversion Period, the variable rate of interest applicable to such amount shall 
be equal to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR,  or such other base rate as may be 
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, for the Approved Currency; plus (B) the 
spread to LIBOR or to such other base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the 
Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the 
Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the interest 
rate component of the Screen Rate.” 
 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed by the 
Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or entities 
who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing 
made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures (fn13) a 
Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or entity, including (but 
not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible publicly, either 
indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) 
to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-
contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the 
project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection with the use of loan 
proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has entered into an agreement for 
the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person or entity 
-21- 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower 
or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
