 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7833-AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Provincial Road Infrastructure Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN NUMBER No. 7833-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), 
and amending the Original Loan Agreement.   
 
 
Whereas: (A) by an agreement dated April 18, 2006 between the Borrower and 
the Bank (the Original Loan Agreement), the Bank made a loan (Loan No. 7301-AR) to 
the Borrower in an amount equal to one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) (the 
Original Loan) to assist in the financing of the Provincial Road Infrastructure Project on 
terms and conditions set forth in the Original Loan Agreement; and 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank to remove from the Original 
Project, Project activities in support of Participating Provinces II and Routine 
Maintenance Subprojects.  
 
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Appendix to this Agreement or in the Original Loan Agreement (as the case may 
be).  
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred seventy five million 
Dollars ($175,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
- 2 - 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower, through the CEU, shall: (a) carry out Part C of the Project; 
and (b) cause each  Participating Province I, through the corresponding DPV, to 
carry out the corresponding Subprojects pursuant to the provisions of the 
pertinent Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I,  all in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower, through CEU, and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through CEU, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, provided, 
however, that if said event shall have occurred and be continuing in respect of 
any given Participating Province I, the suspension of the Borrower’s right to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by the Bank, at the 
Bank’s sole discretion, to withdrawals in respect of Eligible Expenditures in 
respect of any said Participating Province: 
 
(a)  
As a result of events which have occurred after the Signature Date, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Participating Province I will be able to perform any of its 
obligations under the corresponding Amended Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement I.  
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of, namely, that at least one 
Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I has been signed by the parties thereto. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of, namely, that the Amended Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement I entered into satisfaction of the condition set forth in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
the corresponding Participating Province I and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and said Participating Province I in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire 
on July 12, 2011.  
  
- 4 - 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
MINISTERIO  
DE ECONOMIA 
121942-AR 
 
(5411) 4349-8815 
Baires  
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Bank on April 11, 2011, and on 
behalf of the Borrower on April 11, 2011. 
 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Amado Boudou 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Penelope J. Brook 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the primary paved road sector 
assets of Participating Provinces I; and (b) to enhance the DPVs’ capacity to manage and 
administer said road assets, so as to facilitate the transport of products within the 
Borrower’s territory. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as 
amended solely for purposes of the Loan: 
 
Part A: CREMA Subprojects and Road Subprojects  
 
1. 
For purposes of achieving the revised target of approximately twelve (12) 
CREMA Contracts for a total length of approximately one thousand seven 
hundred seventy three (1773) kilometers: 
 
(a) 
carrying out, under the terms of approximately six (6) selected CREMA 
Contracts, of rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, 
resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or maintenance works 
for approximately seven hundred forty one (741) kilometers of roads (in 
the aggregate) under the jurisdiction of Participating Provinces I, as 
approved by the Bank, which CREMA Contracts: (i) were procured in 
accordance with the procurement provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to 
the Original Loan Agreement; (ii) are being partially financed with a 
portion of the proceeds of the Original Loan; and (iii) will be partially 
financed with a portion of the proceeds of the Loan; 
 
(b) 
carrying out, under the terms of approximately two (2) selected CREMA 
Contracts, of rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, 
resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or maintenance works 
for approximately three hundred sixty six (366) kilometers of roads (in 
the aggregate) under the jurisdiction of  Participating Provinces I, as 
approved by the Bank, which CREMA Contracts: (i) were procured, or 
will be procured, in accordance with the procurement provisions set forth 
in Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) are being, or will be, 
partially financed with a portion of the proceeds of the Original Loan; 
and (iii) will be partially financed with a portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan; and 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
(c) 
carrying out, under the terms of: (i) approximately three (3) selected 
CREMA Contracts under the Original Project; and (ii) approximately 
one (1) CREMA Contract to be selected in accordance with the criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual, of rehabilitation works (such as base 
reconstruction, resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or 
maintenance works for approximately six hundred sixty six (666) 
kilometers of roads (in the aggregate) under the jurisdiction of 
Participating Provinces I, as approved by the Bank, which CREMA 
Contracts will be: (A) procured in accordance with the procurement 
provisions set forth in Section III of  Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
(B) partially financed with a portion of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
2. 
For purposes of achieving the revised target of approximately 286 kilometers: 
 
(a) 
carrying out of rehabilitation and upgrading of works (such as base 
reconstruction, resurfacing, paving and/or asphalt concrete overlaying, as 
the case may be) for approximately two hundred thirty four (234) 
kilometers, all within the existing right-of-way of selected roads under 
the jurisdiction of Participating Provinces I (through conventional 
contractual modalities, such as ad-measurement contracts), including any 
other rehabilitation and upgrading works of the same type described 
herein within the jurisdiction of Participating Provinces I, as approved by 
the Bank, which works: (i) were procured, or will be procured, in 
accordance with the procurement provisions set forth in Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) are being, or will be, partially financed 
with a portion of  the proceeds of the Original Loan; and (iii) will be 
partially financed with a portion of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out of rehabilitation and upgrading of selected works (such as 
base reconstruction, resurfacing, paving and/or asphalt concrete 
overlaying, as the case may be) for approximately fifty two (52) 
kilometers, all within the existing right-of-way of selected roads under 
the jurisdiction of  Participating Provinces I (through conventional 
contractual modalities, such as ad-measurement contracts), including any 
other rehabilitation and upgrading works of the same type described 
herein within the jurisdiction of Participating Provinces I, as approved by 
the Bank, which works will be: (i) procured in accordance with the 
procurement provisions set forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) partially financed with a portion of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
Part B: Road Sector Management and Institutional Building 
 
 
Design and implementation of an action plan in each Participating Province I, 
which plan may consist of, inter alia, activities to improve and/or strengthen the capacity 
of the corresponding DPV concerning: (a) strategic planning; (b) budget execution and 
supervision of road works; (c) performance-based management; (d) road safety (as 
approved by the Bank); (e) information technology and communications; and (f) 
environmental management.   
 
Part C: Project Management 
 
1. 
Strengthening of the CEU’s capacity to carry out its functions and 
responsibilities, as referred to in Section I.F (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to Participating Provinces I in the 
preparation of potential CREMA Subprojects, Road Subprojects and/or 
Institutional Building Subprojects. 
 
3. 
Design of baseline indicators to measure the impact of the Project on an ongoing 
basis, and provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to carry out Project 
impact assessments. 
- 9 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements and Other Arrangements 
 
A. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the CEU, shall ensure that Parts A.1 (b) and (c), 
A.2 and C.1 of the Project are carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
 
(b) 
With respect to Part A.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) comply 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and (ii) cause the 
pertinent Participating Province I to ensure that said Participating 
Province I will comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines other than the provision under paragraph 10 (a) of said 
guidelines which provides for the inclusion of the general principles of 
said guidelines and the provisions set forth in paragraph 9 (d) of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines in respect of any of the 6 CREMA Contracts 
mentioned in said Part A.1 (a) of the Project. 
 
B. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower, through the CEU, shall, and shall cause the Participating 
Provinces I to, carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operational Manual. 
 
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
(a)  
For purposes of carrying out any CREMA Subproject and/or Road 
Subproject under the jurisdiction of a Participating Province I, and 
financing the same with the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall 
onlend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) 
(the Additional Subsidiary Loan) to said Participating Province I, 
pursuant to an amendment to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement I (the 
Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I) to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through CEU, and said Participating Province I, all under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which 
shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
(i) The Borrower, through CEU, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through CEU, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Amended Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement I or any provision thereof. 
- 10 - 
D. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, and if determined by the Bank, the Borrower, through the 
CEU, shall cause the corresponding Participating Province I, through the 
pertinent DPV (as applicable) to: (i) prior to the carrying out of the 
works under the pertinent CREMA Subproject (with the exception of the 
CREMA Subproject under Part A.1 (c) (ii) of the Project) and/or Road 
Subproject, update/adjust or cause to be updated/adjusted (as the case 
may be) the existing pertinent environmental assessment for the 
corresponding CREMA Subproject (with the exception of the CREMA 
Subproject under Part A.1 (c) (ii) of the Project) and/or Road Subproject 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) based on said 
updated/adjusted environmental assessment, and if determined by the 
Bank, update/adjust or  cause to be updated/adjusted (as the case may be) 
the pertinent existing environmental mitigation measures set forth in the 
Operational Manual for that particular subproject; and (iii) thereafter, 
implement and/or cause to be implemented, the existing pertinent 
environmental 
mitigation 
measures 
or 
the 
updated/adjusted 
environmental mitigation measures in a manner acceptable to the Bank.  
 
   
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, and upon selection of the CREMA Subproject under Part 
A.1 (c) (ii) of the Project, , and prior to the carrying out of the pertinent 
works under said CREMA Subproject, the Borrower, through the CEU, 
shall cause the pertinent Participating Province I, through the 
corresponding DPV (as applicable) to: (i) carry out and/or cause to be 
carried out an environmental assessment of said CREMA Subproject, 
and based on the results of said assessment and if determined by the 
Bank, approve and/or cause to be approved an environmental 
management plan or similar environmental instrument, acceptable to the 
Bank, for said works (which plan or similar environmental instrument 
shall be based on the results of the environmental assessment mentioned 
herein, and the Bank’s comments on the results of said assessment, if 
any), all in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
and (ii) immediately after said approval, implement and/or cause to be 
implemented (as the case may be) the corresponding environmental 
management plan (or similar environmental instrument) in accordance 
with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
(a)   
The Borrower shall operate and maintain, at all times during Project 
implementation, the CEU with a structure, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to assist 
the Borrower in: (i) the carrying out of Part C of the Project; and (ii) the 
monitoring, coordination  and supervision of the Project. 
 
- 11 - 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the CEU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by 
professional staff (including, highway engineers, a transport economist 
specialist, 
an 
institutional 
strengthening 
specialist, 
a 
financial 
management specialist, a social specialist and a procurement specialist) 
and administrative staff, all in numbers and with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Bank. 
 
F. 
(a)  
The Borrower, through CEU, shall immediately after it has prepared and 
approved the baseline indicators referred to in Section 3.11 (a) of the 
Original Loan Agreement, assess, on an ongoing basis, the Project 
impact in accordance with said baseline indicators. 
 
 
(b)   
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) herein, the 
Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31, 2012: (A) carry out a 
mid-term impact assessment of the Project in accordance with the 
baseline indicators referred to in paragraph (a) above, which assessment 
shall take into account the enhanced roads condition, the transport costs, 
production opportunities, job generation and road safety; and (B) prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, a report, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting the 
results of said mid-term assessment; and (ii) not later than December 31, 
2014: (A) carry out a final impact assessment of the Project in 
accordance with the baseline indicators referred to in (a) above, which 
final assessment shall also take into account the same variables 
mentioned in (i) (A) herein; and (B) prepare and furnish to the Bank, a 
report, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting the results of said final impact 
assessment. 
 
G. 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall ensure, and cause each Participating Province 
I (through its corresponding DPV) to ensure, that any works to be carried out 
under any CREMA Subproject and/or Road Subproject do not involve any 
Resettlement. 
 
H. 
(a)  
The Borrower, through CEU, shall cause each Participating Province I 
to: (i) not later than December 31 of each calendar year of Project 
implementation, prepare and furnish to the Bank the corresponding 
annual road investment program to be carried out during the calendar 
year following the date of presentation of said program (which program 
shall include, inter alia, the CREMA Subprojects and/or the Road 
Subprojects, as well as the routine maintenance activities on the paved 
non-concessioned provincial road network (including their contract 
modalities) to be carried out during said given year and a proposed 
budget to finance the same); and (ii) not later than sixty calendar days 
after the end of each calendar year of Project implementation, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, a report of such scope and in such detail as the 
- 12 - 
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the list of the CREMA 
Subprojects, Road Subprojects and the routine maintenance activities on 
the paved non-concessioned provincial road network (including the 
source of financing and the amount allocated for the financing of said 
CREMA Subprojects, Road Subprojects and routine maintenance 
activities;) carried out during the calendar year immediately preceding 
the date of presentation of each said report.  
 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall cause each Participating Province I 
to, immediately after the presentation to the Bank of each annual road 
investment program referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, disclose 
the same to the public in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
 
(c) 
As part of the annual report to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Borrower, through the CEU, shall 
cause each Participating Province I to include in each said annual report 
information with respect to the percentage of the paved provincial road 
network: (i) without potholes; (ii) without edge drops between the 
pavement and the shoulder; and (iii) with horizontal marking/vertical 
signs. 
 
I. 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, the procurement information system referred to in 
Section 3.16 of the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
 
J. 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar 
year during Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout 
each said calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in 
the relevant annual budget in order to keep track of the corresponding 
expenditures incurred during Project implementation. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester (starting with the calendar semester in which the Effective Date falls), 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five calendar days after the 
end of the period covered by such Project Report. 
 
 
- 13 - 
2.     
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General 
Conditions, and as part of the Project Reports to be presented to the Bank as 
stipulated in Section II.A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower, through CEU, shall 
include: (a) a summary of the Eligible Expenditures incurred during the calendar 
semester covered by the pertinent Project Report and their corresponding 
payment (including those expenditures incurred by the Borrower, through CEU, 
and the Participating Provinces I during said period of time which are financed 
by the same with their counterpart funds) in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank; (b) the list of signed contracts for goods, works and consultants’ 
services under the Project as reflected in the Borrower’s financial management 
system during the period covered by each said Project Report; and (c) an action 
plan, acceptable to the Bank, which plan shall include, inter alia, the 
recommended measures (including the Bank’s views, if any, and a timetable to 
implement the same) reflected in the pertinent Project Report. 
  
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower, 
through the CEU, shall, and shall cause the Participating Provinces I, to, not later 
than March 31, 2013, exchange views with the Bank (the mid-term review) with 
respect to the pertinent Project Reports covering the last two calendar semesters 
preceding the date of said mid-term review. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through the CEU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project 
Reports mentioned in Section II.A.1 of this Schedule, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the pertinent calendar semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Works.   (a) All works required under Part A.1(a) of the Project and to be 
partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Original Loan Agreement; and (b) all works 
under Parts A.1 (b) and (c) and A.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to the other provisions in Section III.A.1 
(b) of this Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the 
procurement of works under Parts A.1 (b) and (c) and A.2 of the Project (as the 
case may be):  
 
 
(a) 
procurement of works shall be carried out using: (i) standard bidding 
documents (which bidding documents in respect of works shall include, 
if applicable, a provision whereby the pertinent contractor must comply 
with the pertinent provisions set forth in the Operational Manual related 
to the environmental mitigation measures in respect of any given 
CREMA Subproject and/or Road Subproject) and/or standard requests 
for quotations (as the case may be), all acceptable to the Bank, which 
shall all also include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision and the 
pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) model 
bid/quotation evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii) model 
contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank; 
 
 
(b) 
all contracts for works to be procured in respect of any CREMA Contract 
and/or Road Subproject shall contain a methodology, acceptable to the 
Bank, whereby the price of each said contracts shall be adjusted through 
the use of price adjustment formulas, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
 
 
(c) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the 
procurement of works;  
 
 
 
- 15 - 
 
(d)     
after the public opening of bids for works, information relating to the 
examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and recommendations 
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not 
officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract 
award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned 
with said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other 
bidders’ bids; 
 
 
(e) 
foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina 
(except as provided in the standard bidding documents referred to in 
paragraph 3 (a) (i) above); (ii) be required to have a representative in 
Argentina; and (iii) be required to be associated or subcontract with 
Argentine suppliers, contractors or consultants; 
 
 
(f)  
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings and 
the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of bids of all works 
procured by the Participating Provinces I, shall be published in the web 
page of the Borrower’s Office of National Procurement (Oficina 
Nacional de Contrataciones), all in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
The bidding period shall be counted from the date of publication of the 
invitation to bid or the date of the availability of the bidding documents, 
whichever is later, to the date of bid opening;  
 
 
(g) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 
2.59 of the Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts 
for works to be procured under National Competitive Bidding 
procedures; 
 
 
(h) 
the Borrower, through CEU, shall: (i) supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days 
after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the 
Procurement Plan at least every three months, or as required by the Bank, 
to reflect the actual project implementation needs and progress and shall 
supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated 
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; and 
 
 
(i) 
contracts for  works shall not be awarded to the “most convenient” bid, 
but rather to the bidder whose bid has been determined: (i) to be 
substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the lowest evaluated bid, 
provided that said bidder has demonstrated to the Participating Provinces 
I to be qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily. 
 
 
 
- 16 - 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, works under Parts A.1 (b) and (c) and A.2 of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of  Works.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping  
 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures  
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Works: 
 
(a) under CREMA 
Subprojects 
 
(b) under Road 
Subprojects  
 
   
 
 
136,000,000 
 
 
30,100,000 
 
 
85% of each Eligible 
Expenditure incurred by each 
Participating Province I until 
disbursements under this 
Category have reached an 
aggregate amount of 
$83,050,000; and 65% of each 
Eligible Expenditure incurred 
by each Participating Province 
I thereafter 
 
(2) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest 
 
Collars 
 
0 
Amounts payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
 
437,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
(4) Unallocated 
 
8,462,500 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
175,000,000 
 
 
- 18 - 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $17,500,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date but on or after  
March 1, 2009 (but in no case more than one year prior to the Signature 
Date) for Eligible Expenditures for Category (1) provided that the 
pertinent obligations and/or conditions set forth in this Agreement, as 
applicable to each CREMA Subproject and/or Road Subproject, have 
been complied with or met; and 
 
(b) 
payments made to finance any CREMA Subproject and/or any Road 
Subproject under the jurisdiction of a given Participating Province I 
under Category (1), unless: 
 
(i) 
the corresponding Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I has 
been signed by the respective parties thereto; and 
 
(ii) 
counsel for the Borrower and the corresponding Participating 
Province I, acceptable to the Bank, has each furnished to the 
Bank an opinion or opinions, acceptable to the Bank, providing 
that the pertinent Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the 
corresponding Participating Province I and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and said Participating Province I in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings and Amendment to the Original Loan 
 
Agreement 
 
 
(a) 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall cause each Participating Province to: 
(i) not later than forty five calendar days after the end of each calendar 
year during Project implementation (starting with the calendar year in 
which the Effective Date falls), prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, 
acceptable to the Bank, which report shall include information with 
respect to: (A) locally generated provincial revenues; (B) total provincial 
revenues; (C) interest payments; (D) provincial primary surplus; and (E) 
provincial public debt; and (ii) not later than thirty calendar days after the 
presentation of each of said reports, review with the Borrower and the 
Bank the pertinent report. 
- 19 - 
 
(b) 
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the term: (i) “locally 
generated provincial revenues” means the revenues generated by a 
Participating Province from all provincial sources during the calendar 
year prior to the date of presentation of the pertinent report mentioned in 
(a) (i) herein, but excluding the revenues resulting from the transfers of 
monetary resources from the Borrower, such as grants and/or co-
participation funds; (ii) “total provincial revenues” means  the revenues 
generated by a Participating Province from all provincial sources, 
including the monetary transfers from the Borrower (such as,  grants 
and/or co-participation funds) during the calendar year prior to the date 
of presentation of the pertinent report mentioned in (a) (i) herein; (iii) 
“interest payments” means the payments made by a Participating 
Province during the calendar year prior to the date of presentation of the 
pertinent report mentioned in (a) (i) herein on interest of provincial 
public debt (as the term “provincial public debt” is defined in (v) herein); 
(iv) “provincial primary surplus” means the difference resulting from the 
total provincial revenues (as said terms is defined in (ii) herein) and non-
interest provincial expenditures (which term is defined as the total 
spending incurred by the Participating Province during the calendar year 
prior to the presentation of the pertinent report, but excluding interest 
payments on provincial public debt (as the term “provincial public debt” 
is defined in (v) herein)); and  (v) “provincial public debt” means the 
total stock of debt of a Participating Province as of the last day of the 
calendar year prior to the date of presentation of the pertinent report 
mentioned in (a) (i) herein. 
 
 
(c)  
The Borrower shall amend the Original Loan Agreement as reflected in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
- 20 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2016  
 
through November 15, 2037 
 
 
2.22% 
On May 15, 2038 
2.32% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
 
- 21 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
- 22 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Terms and Conditions of the Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreements I 
 
Each Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I shall incorporate the provisions of 
the pertinent Subsidiary Loan Agreement I, and contain, inter alia, the following 
provisions: 
 
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through CEU: 
 
(i) 
to promptly disburse to each Participating Province I the 
proceeds of the corresponding Additional Subsidiary Loan in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
to allocate the Front-end Fee applicable to the Loan 
proportionately among each Participating Province I; and 
 
(iii) 
to: (A) ensure that Parts A.1 (b) and (c), A.2 and C.1 of the 
Project are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines as referred to in Section I.A (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) comply with the 
provisions set forth in Section I.A (b) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement as applicable to the pertinent Participating Province 
I; 
 
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through CEU, to take remedial actions against 
the pertinent Participating Province I in case said Participating Province I 
shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent 
Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I in respect of any Subproject; and 
 
(c) 
the obligation of each Participating Province I: 
 
(i) 
to use the Additional Subsidiary Loan for the financing of 
CREMA Subprojects and/or Road Subprojects; 
 
(ii) 
to provide the counterpart funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, 
necessary 
or 
appropriate 
to 
carry 
out 
the 
corresponding Subproject as provided in this Agreement;  
 
(iii)  
to repay the proceeds of the Additional Subsidiary Loan (which 
Additional Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in Dollars 
equivalent and carry the same interest rate applicable to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement) withdrawn by the 
Participating Province I (together with interest and other charges 
thereon, as applicable): (A) in the same currency in which the 
corresponding principal amount of the Loan and interest and 
- 23 - 
other charges thereon are to be repaid by the Borrower to the 
Bank pursuant to Article III of the General Conditions; and (B) 
under repayment terms (including payment of interest and other 
charges thereon) that shall coincide with those repayment terms 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
 
   (iv) 
if applicable, to cause the corresponding DPV to carry out the 
pertinent Subprojects in accordance with the pertinent provisions 
of this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
to comply with, or caused to be complied with, the obligations 
referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.06 and 5.07 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, respectively) in respect 
of said Subprojects; 
 
(vi) 
to ensure that CREMA Subprojects (under Parts A.1 (b) and (c) 
of the Project) and/or Road Subprojects referred to in (c) (i) 
above, and Part C.1 of the Project, are carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by for 
example, allowing Bank inspection and audit rights under 
paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines); 
 
(vii) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, 
through CEU, to comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement (including the obligation referred to in Section I.A 
(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement), as applicable to the 
pertinent Participating Province I; 
 
(viii) 
to prepare and furnish to the Bank the pertinent reports referred 
to in Section V (a) and (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in 
accordance with the terms provided in said section;  
 
      (ix)  
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
enforce the relevant Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I or 
any provision thereof; and 
 
         
(x) 
(A) to operate and maintain (or cause to be operated and  
maintained) at all times during Project implementation, a 
provincial management unit (the PMU), with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; and (B) to 
ensure that the PMU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by 
professional staff (including a procurement specialist) and 
administrative staff, all in numbers and with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Bank. 
- 24 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Amendments to the Original Loan Agreement 
 
A. 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement 
 
as follows: 
 
1. 
Any reference to the terms “Fiscal Responsibility Law”, “Participating Provinces 
II”, “Routine Maintenance Subprojects”, “SOP” and “Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement II” are hereby deleted. 
 
2. 
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall:  
 
(a) 
carry out Part D of the Project, through the CEU, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, social, engineering and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for said Part of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
cause each Participating Province I through the corresponding DPV 
(pursuant to the terms of the corresponding Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
I, as said term is defined in Section 1.02 of this Agreement) to carry out 
the corresponding Subproject (as said term is defined in Section 1.02 of 
this Agreement) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, social, engineering, 
ecological and environmental practices, shall take and/or cause to be 
taken (as the case may be) all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
each Participating Province I to carry out the corresponding Subproject, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with the carrying out of said Subproject.”. 
 
3. 
Sections 3.05 and 3.08 are hereby deleted. 
 
4. 
Sections 3.10, 3.11, 3.12 and 3.14 are hereby amended to read in their entirety as 
follows: 
 
“Section 3.10.  The Borrower shall: 
 
 
(a) 
maintain, and cause each Participating Province I to maintain, policies 
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
- 25 - 
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish 
to the Bank, not later than thirty days after the end of each calendar 
semester during Project implementation (starting with the report due in 
January 2006), a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the following calendar semester; and 
 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank and the Participating Provinces I not later than 
March 31 of each year of Project implementation (starting in the year 
2006), the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take and/or cause to be taken, as the case may be, all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
As part of the annual review to be carried out in the year 2006, the 
Borrower shall assess with the Bank the provincial demand of Project 
participation, and thereafter, if appropriate, shall take corrective actions 
(acceptable to the Bank) so as to increase said provincial demand. 
 
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than six calendar months after 
the Effective Date, prepare (under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank) and 
approve the baseline indicators referred to in Part D.3 of the Project; and (ii) 
immediately thereafter, assess, on an ongoing basis, the Project impact in 
accordance with said baseline indicators. 
 
(b)   
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) herein, the 
Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31, 2012: (A) carry out a 
mid-term impact assessment of the Project in accordance with the 
baseline indicators referred to in paragraph (a) above, which assessment 
shall take into account the enhanced roads condition, the transport costs, 
production opportunities, job generation and road safety; and (B) prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, a report, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting the 
results of said mid-term assessment; and (ii) not later than December 31, 
2014: (A) carry out a final impact assessment of the Project in 
accordance with the baseline indicators referred to in (a) above, which 
final assessment shall also take into account the same variables 
mentioned in (i) (A) herein; and (B) prepare and furnish to the Bank, a 
- 26 - 
report, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting the results of said final impact 
assessment. 
 
Section 3.12. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause each Participating 
Province (through its corresponding DPV) to ensure, that any works to be carried 
out under any CREMA Subproject and/or Road Subproject do not involve any 
Resettlement. 
 
 
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower, through CEU, shall cause each Participating 
Province I to: (i) not later than December 31 of each calendar year of Project 
implementation, prepare and furnish to the Bank the corresponding annual road 
investment program  to be carried out during the calendar year following the date 
of presentation of said program (which program shall include, inter alia, the 
CREMA Subprojects and/or the Road Subprojects, as well as the routine 
maintenance activities on the paved non-concessioned provincial road network 
(including their contract modalities) to be carried out during said given year, and 
a proposed budget to finance the same); and (ii) not later than sixty calendar days 
after the end of each calendar year of Project implementation, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request concerning the list of the CREMA Subprojects, Road 
Subprojects and the routine maintenance activities on the paved non-
concessioned provincial road network (including the source of financing and the 
amount allocated for the financing of said CREMA Subprojects, Road 
Subprojects and routine maintenance activities), carried out during the calendar 
year immediately preceding the date of presentation of each said report.  
 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through CEU, shall cause each Participating Province I 
to, immediately after the presentation to the Bank of each annual road 
investment program referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section disclose 
the same to the public in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
 
(c) 
As part of the annual report to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Borrower, through the CEU, shall 
cause each Participating Province I to include in each said annual report 
information with respect to the percentage of the paved provincial road 
network: (i) without potholes; (ii) without edge drops between the 
pavement and the shoulder; and (iii) with horizontal marking/vertical 
signs.”. 
 
5. 
Section 4.03 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
 
“Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower, through CEU, shall cause each Participating 
Province to: (i) not later than forty five calendar days after the end of each 
calendar year during Project implementation, prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report, acceptable to the Bank, which report shall include information with 
- 27 - 
respect to: (A) locally generated provincial revenues; (B) total provincial 
revenues; (C) interest payments; (D) provincial primary surplus; and (E) 
provincial public debt; and (ii) not later than thirty calendar days after the 
presentation of each of said reports, review with the Borrower and the Bank the 
pertinent report. 
 
 
(b) 
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the term: (i) “locally 
generated provincial revenues” means the revenues generated by a 
Participating Province from all provincial sources during the calendar 
year prior to the date of presentation of the pertinent report mentioned in 
(a) (i) herein, but excluding the revenues resulting from the transfers of 
monetary resources from the Borrower, such as grants and/or co-
participation funds; (ii) “total provincial revenues” means  the revenues 
generated by a Participating Province from all provincial sources, 
including the monetary transfers from the Borrower (such as,  grants 
and/or co-participation funds) during the calendar year prior to the date 
of presentation of the pertinent report mentioned in (a) (i) herein; (iii) 
“interest payments” means the payments made by a Participating 
Province during the calendar year prior to the date of presentation of the 
pertinent report mentioned in (a) (i) herein on interest of provincial 
public debt (as the term “provincial public debt” is defined in (v) herein); 
(iv) “provincial primary surplus” means the difference resulting from the 
total provincial revenues (as said terms is defined in (ii) herein) and non-
interest provincial expenditures (which term is defined as the total 
spending incurred by the Participating Province during the calendar year 
prior to the presentation of the pertinent report, but excluding interest 
payments on provincial public debt (as the term “provincial public debt” 
is defined in (v) herein); and  (v) “provincial public debt” means the total 
stock of debt of a Participating Province as of the last day of the calendar 
year prior to the date of presentation of the pertinent report mentioned in 
(a) (i) herein.”. 
 
6. 
Part A of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
 
“Part A: 
CREMA Subprojects and Road Subprojects  
1. 
Carrying out, under the terms of approximately twelve (12) 
CREMA Contracts, of rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, 
resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or maintenance works for 
approximately one thousand seven hundred seventy three (1773) kilometers of 
roads (in the aggregate) under the jurisdiction of Participating Provinces I, 
including any other CREMA Contracts within the jurisdiction of Participating 
Provinces I, as approved by the Bank.  
 
- 28 - 
2. 
Carrying out of rehabilitation and upgrading works (such as base 
reconstruction, resurfacing, paving and/or asphalt concrete overlaying, as the 
case may be) for approximately two hundred eighty six (286) kilometers within 
the existing right-of-way of selected roads under the jurisdiction of  Participating 
Provinces I (through conventional contractual modalities, such as ad-
measurement contracts), including any other rehabilitation and upgrading works 
of the same type described herein within the jurisdiction of Participating 
Provinces I, as approved by the Bank.”. 
 
7. 
Parts B and C.2 of Schedule 2 are hereby deleted, and left  deliberately blank in 
Schedule 2. 
 
8. 
Part D.2 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
 
“2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to Participating Provinces I 
in the preparation of potential CREMA Subprojects, Road Subprojects and/or 
Institutional Building Subprojects.”. 
 
 
9. 
Paragraphs (c) (vii) and (viii) of Schedule 5 are hereby amended to read in their 
entirety as follows: 
 
 
“(vii) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through 
CEU, to comply with its obligations under this Agreement, as applicable to the 
pertinent Participating Province I; 
 
 
(viii) to prepare and furnish to the Bank the pertinent reports referred to in 
Section 4.03 of this Agreement in accordance with the terms provided in said 
section;”. 
  
10. 
Schedule 6 is hereby deleted. 
- 29 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Additional Subsidiary Loan” means a loan to be provided under an Amended 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement I. 
 
2. 
“Amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement I” means any of the amended agreements 
referred to in Section I.C (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CEU” means the central executing unit established within the coordinating unit 
of programs and projects with external financing (Unidad Coordinadora de 
Programas y Proyectos con Financiamiento Externo) under the jurisdiction of 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Federal Planning,  Public Investment and Services, or 
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
6. 
“CREMA Contract” means a multi-year contract under Part A.1 of the Project, 
entered into by the corresponding Participating Province I or DPV (as the case 
may be) with a private sector contractor, which contract obligates the private 
sector contractor to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance 
work as a single package, from design and programming of the works, through 
the execution of such works, with respect to an identified portion of the 
corresponding provincial road network. 
 
7. 
“CREMA Subproject” means any of the works under each CREMA Contract (as 
said term is defined herein). 
 
8. 
“DPV” means Dirección Provincial de Vialidad, the Provincial Road 
Department, which may or may not be vested with legal personality, or any other 
entity (which may or may not be vested with legal personality) with similar 
functions and responsibilities, all within the administrative jurisdiction of a 
Participating Province I. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
- 30 - 
10. 
“Institutional Building Subproject” means any of the activities referred to in Part 
B of the Project. 
 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, dated October 14, 2009, 
acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section 1.02 of the Original Loan 
Agreement (as defined herein) which manual has been amended for purposes of 
this Project to include, inter alia: (a) the environmental mitigation measures 
identified by the pertinent environmental assessment carried out in respect of any 
given CREMA Subproject and/or Road Subproject pursuant to Section 3.07 of 
the Original Loan Agreement (with the exception of the CREMA Subproject 
under Part A.1 (c) (ii) of the Project), and the guidelines to be followed by the 
Participating Provinces I in case it is determined that the environmental 
assessments carried out pursuant to Section 3.07 of the Original Loan Agreement 
need to be updated/adjusted; (b) the environmental guidelines to be followed by 
the pertinent Participating Provinces I in carrying out the environmental 
assessment in respect of CREMA Subproject under Part A.1 (c) (ii) of the 
Project; (c) the Project’s standard bidding documents for CREMA Subprojects 
and Road Subprojects referred to in Section III.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; (d) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (e) the 
format of: (i) the unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Financial Statements; (f) the terms 
of reference for carrying out the Project audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement; (g) the Project indicators (including the results framework); 
and (h) the Project disbursement and procurement procedures, as said manual 
may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank (as said terms are defined herein). 
 
12. 
“Original Loan” means loan amount referred to in the Whereas clause (A) of this 
Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement referred to in the Whereas 
clause (A) of this Agreement, as amended. 
 
14. 
“Original Project” means the project set forth in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement (as said term is defined herein). 
 
15. 
“Participating Province I” means any of the following political subdivisions of 
the Borrower (as per title Two of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution): Córdoba, 
Corrientes, Chubut, Entre Rios, Neuquen and Santa Fe, all of which have met the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to carry out any Subproject 
(as said terms are defined herein). 
 
16. 
“Participating Province II” means any of the Borrower’s political subdivisions 
(as per title Two of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution), which meets the 
- 31 - 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to carry out any Project 
activity under Part C.2 of the Original Project. 
 
17. 
“PMU” means any of the provincial management units (or any other unit with 
similar functions and responsibilities) referred to in paragraph (c) (x) (A) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 13, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
20. 
“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the 
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently. 
 
21. 
“Road Subproject” means any of the works referred to in Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
22. 
“Routine Maintenance Subproject” means any of the annual routine maintenance 
programs referred to in Part B of the Original Project. 
 
23. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
 
24. 
“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and 
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references 
to “the date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions. 
 
25. 
“SOP” means Secretaría de Obras Públicas, the Secretariat of Public Works 
established within the Borrower’s Ministry of Federal Planning, Public 
Investment and Services, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
26. 
“Subproject” means a CREMA Subproject, an Institutional Building Subproject, 
and/or a Road Subproject (as the case may be) (as said terms are defined herein). 
 
- 32 - 
27. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement I” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of the Original Loan Agreement which were signed on or before 
April 28, 2009, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity or any 
Participating Province I ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by 
the Bank or the Association or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the 
Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the Association that the 
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity or any Participating Province I has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
- 33 - 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
