OFFCIAL.I
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8057-EE
Loan Agreement
(Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Hydro-Electrical Power (1040 MW) Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
NoVeiher 
-9 
,2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
November 
29, 
2011, 
between 
REPUBLIC 
OF
INDONESIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred forty million United
States Dollars (US$640,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. 
To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
-3-
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Location Determination for the Project has been issued.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with
its terms.
(b) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement have each
been duly authorized by the Project Implementing Entity, and is each
legally binding upon it in accordance with its respective terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
DJMLN-IA 
62-21-381-2859
Jakarta 
44319 DEPKEU-IA
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
.64145(MCI)
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Rahmat Waluyanto
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the proposed project is to significantly increase peaking capacity
of the power generation system in Java-Bali in an environmentally and socially
sustainable way and strengthen the Project Implementing Entity's institutional capacity in
hydropower planning, development and operation.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Development of the Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Power Plant
(a) 
Dam and Appurtenant Structures and Access. Development, construction and
operation of the Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Power Plant in West Java at the
catchment of the Upper Cisokan River with an installed capacity of 1,040
megawatts, including:
(i) 
the construction of: (A) a new Lower Reservoir with approximately 10
million cubic meters of active storage impounded by a roller compacted
concrete dam with a maximum height of approximately 98.0 meters: and
(B) a new Upper Reservoir with approximately 10 million cubic meters
of active storage impounded by a roller compacted concrete dam with a
maximum height of approximately 75.5 meters;
(ii) 
the construction of waterway structures, including two headrace tunnels
with a total length of approximately 2,380 meters connecting the Lower
Reservoir and Upper Reservoir, an underground powerhouse, an outdoor
500 kilovolts switchyard, and related hydraulic metal works and building
works;
(iii) 
the installation of the generator-motor and related electrical equipment
with an installed capacity of approximately 4x260 megawatts, and the
installation of hydraulic pump-turbine and auxiliary equipment with an
installed capacity of approximately 4x275 megawatts;
(iv) 
project preparatory works, including construction of the Access Roads
(widening of existing road segments and construction of new road
segments) from the existing quarry at Gunung Karang to the Upper
Reservoir and Lower Reservoir construction sites; and
(v) 
installation of a short 20 kilovolts distribution line to assist with
construction power needs.
-6-
(b) 
Transmission Lines. 
Construction of two double circuit 500 kilovolts
transmission lines to connect the Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Power Plant to
the existing Java-Bali power system at the Cibinong-Saguling line.
(c) 
Provision of support for implementation of the above activities, including
assistance in pre-construction engineering design, procurement, and construction
management and supervision.
(d) 
Project Administration. Provision of support for project administrative activities
to be conducted by the Project Implementation Unit.
Part 2: Social and Environmental Impact Management
(a) 
Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Livelihoods Restoration. 
Provision of
support for the implementation of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action
Plans, including resettlement, rehabilitation, compensation and livelihoods
development measures that will improve, or at least maintain, people's pre-project
living standards and income earning capacity.
(b) 
Environment Management. Provision of support for the implementation by the
Project Implementing Entity of the Environmental Management Plan and
Supporting Plans.
Part 3: Feasibility Study and Preparation of Design and Bid Documents for
Matenggeng Pumped Storage Power Project, and related Capacity Building
(a) 
Provision of support for the undertaking of a feasibility study and the preparation
of basic design and bid documents for the future planned Matenggeng Pumped
Storage Project in Central Java with 
a planned installed capacity 
of
approximately 880 megawatts, including: (i) updating of previous 'studies to
verify engineering and economic feasibility and preparation of basic design and
bid documents; and (ii) preparation of an environmental impact assessment study
and the development of land acquisition and resettlement plans.
(b) 
Provision of capacity building assistance to the Project Implementing Entity for
the planning, development and operation of hydropower projects, especially
pumped storage hydropower projects.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, in
accordance with the regulations of the Borrower in this regard and under terms
and conditions agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, and which shall include the
following obligations of the Project Implementing Entity:
(a) 
to make: (i) payment to the Borrower of a front-end fee in an amount
equal to the Front-end Fee specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement;
(ii) repayment to the Borrower of the proceeds of the Loan over a period
consistent with Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (iii) payment to the
Borrower of interest on the Withdrawn Loan Balance at a variable rate
per annum equal to the rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section
2.04 of this Agreement, subject to any request that the Borrower may
make pursuant to Section 2.07 of this Agreement, plus a maximum of
one half of one percent (0.5%); and
(b) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with all of the
provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement applicable
to the Project Implementing Entity.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the Project Implementation Plan and the Procurement Manual; and (b) except as
the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
-8-
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Implementation
Plan or Procurement Manual and those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines and the Governance and
Accountability Framework.
D. 
Safeguards
S. 
The Project will be implemented by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the Environmental Management Plan and Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Action Plans.
2. 
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to comply with, or measures
necessary to enable the Project Implementing Entity to complete the acquisition
of land and all rights to use related thereto required for the Project Implementing
Entity to carry out the Project and to comply with, the provisions of Section I.D
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the following are financed exclusively out of its
own resources or other resources and not out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
provide, promptly as needed, the resources needed for this purpose: (a) all land
acquisition required for the purposes of the Project; (b) resettlement and
rehabilitation payments and other assistance to Affected Persons in accordance
with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plans; and (c) all activities related to
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and Supporting Plans
under Part 2 of the Project.
4. 
Notwithstanding any activities carried out under Part 3 of the Project, the
Borrower expressly acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the Bank makes no
commitment to fund and/or supervise the implementation of the Matenggeng
Pumped Storage Power Project; and (b) the Bank shall not be held responsible
for, and hereby agrees to hold the Bank harmless from, any liabilities associated
with the Matenggeng Pumped Storage Power Project in the event that the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity obtains financing for such project
from sources other than the Bank and/or applies national standards, the standards
of such financiers, or any other standards in the design, construction and/or
operation of such project.
-9-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed in writing between the
Project Implementing Entity and the Bank. Each such Project Report shall cover
the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section- 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
-10-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services
International Competitive Bidding. Goods, works and services other than
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Internationaf Competitive Bidding.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality Based Selection Selection
(b) Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions): (a) to finance the Front-end Fee in
accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General Conditions; and (b) to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
- 11 -
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Goods, 
works, 
non- 
640,000,000 
100%
consulting 
services 
and
consultants' services under
Part I and Part 3 of the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
640,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $64,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after October 1, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
September 15, 2020 
2.17
March 15, 2021 
2.22
September 15, 2021 
2.28
March 15,2022 
2.34
September 15, 2022 
2.40
March 15, 2023 
2.46
September 15, 2023 
2.52
March 15, 2024 
2.58
September 15, 2024 
2.64
March 15, 2025 
2.71
September 15, 2025 
2.78
March 15, 2026 
2.85
September 15, 2026 
2.92
March 15, 2027 
2.99
September 15,2027 
3.07
March 15, 2028 
3.14
September 15, 2028 
3.22
March 15, 2029 
3.30
September 15, 2029 
3.38
March 15, 2030 
3.47
September 15, 2030 
3.56
March 15, 2031 
3.65
September 15, 2031 
3.74
March 15, 2032 
3.83
September 15, 2032 
3.93
- 13 -
March 15, 2033 
4.02
September 15, 2033 
4.12
March 15, 2034 
4.23
September 15, 2034 
4.33
March 15, 2035 
4.44
September 15, 2035 
4.71
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined -as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
- 14 -
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization
schedule for each such amount.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Access Roads" means the approximately 34 kilometers of roads (widening of
approximately 6.7 kilometers of existing road segments and construction of new
road segments) from the existing quarry at Gunung Karang to the Upper
Reservoir and Lower Reservoir construction sites under Part 1(a)(iv) of the
Project.
2. 
"Access Road and Quarry LARAP" means the Project Implementing Entity's
"Access Road and Quarry Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan", dated
March 18, 2011 meeting the requirements of the Bank (Operational Policy
4.12/Bank Procedures 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement in effect as of the date of
such LARAP) and acceptable to the Bank, setting out the arrangements
pertaining 
to land acquisition and the compensation, 
resettlement, 
and
rehabilitation of Affected Persons in respect of the Access Roads under the
Project, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such
plan.
3. 
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of implementation of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person;
and "Affected Persons" means, collectively, all such persons.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and as revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Central Government" means the ministries and agencies of the national-level
government of the Borrower involved in the Project, including the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower, the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources of the
Borrower, the Ministry of Forestry of the Borrower and the National Land
Agency of the Borrower, or any successor to any such ministry or agency.
- 16 -
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
8. 
"Dam Safety Plan" means the plan, dated March 10, 2010, acceptable to the
Bank, developed and approved by the Project Implementing Entity, and referred
to in Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, setting out:
(a) measures, including organization, staffing levels, procedures, equipment, and
supervision qualifications, for supervision and quality assurance of the
construction of or work on the Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Power Plant,
including the Upper Reservoir and Lower Reservoir and dams; (b) measures for
the installation of instruments to monitor and record the behavior of and the
hydro-meteorological, structural, and seismic factors relating to the Upper
Cisokan Pumped Storage Power Plant, including the Upper Reservoir and Lower
Reservoir and dams; (c) 
measures, including organization, staffing levels,
procedures, equipment, and supervision qualifications, for supervision and
quality assurance of: the operation and maintenance of the Upper Cisokan
Pumped Storage Power Plant, including the Upper Reservoir and Lower
Reservoir and dams; and (d) measures, including clear statements on the
responsibility 
for 
operations 
decision 
making 
and 
related 
emergency
communications, maps outlining inundation levels for various emergency
conditions, flood warning system characteristics, and procedures for evaluating
threatened areas and mobilizing emergency forces and equipment, for when
facility failure is considered imminent or when expected operational flow release
threatens downstream life, property, or economic operations that depend on river
flow levels relating to Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Power Plan, including the
Upper Reservoir and Lower Reservoir and dams, as such Dam Safety Plan may
be revised from time to time in accordance with the requirements of this
Agreement and the Project Agreement, and such term includes any schedules or
annexes to such plan.
9. 
"Department of Finance" means the department of the Project Implementing
Entity (as hereinafter defined) responsible for finance, or any successor thereto.
10. 
"Department of Planning and Technology" means the department of the Project
Implementing Entity responsible for planning and technology, or any successor
thereto.
11. 
"Department of Strategic Procurement" means the department of the Project
Implementing Entity responsible for procurement, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's
plan, dated March 15, 2011 and acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, setting out mitigation, enhancement,
-17-
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be
implemented under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels,
or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or
annexes to such plan.
13. 
"Environmental 
and Social Panel" 
and 
"ESP" means the independent
environmental and social review panel established by the Project Implementing
Entity and acceptable to the Bank to provide independent advice on both
environmental and social aspects of the Project design and implementation, and
regarding measures to enhance the overall environmental and social outcome of
the Project, as well as capacity building, as referred to in paragraph 5 of Section
I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as such panel may be reconstituted
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank under terms of
reference and with experts whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to
the Bank.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
15. 
"Governance and Accountability Framework" means the Project Implementing
Entity's framework, part of the Project Implementation Plan, acceptable to the
Bank, 
setting out 
measures 
to 
reinforce 
Project governance, 
enhance
transparency of Project activities, increase public accountability, and reduce
opportunities for corruption, fraud, or collusion, as the same may be modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Project Implementing
Entity and the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such
framework.
16. 
"Governor" means the head of the executive branch at the Province level.
17. 
"Java-Bali" means, collectively, the provinces of Bali, Banten, Central Java, East
Java, Jakarta, West Java, and Yogyakarta in the Borrower's territory.
18. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plans" and "LARAPs" means,
collectively, the Access Road and Quarry LARAP, the Transmission Lines
LARAP and the Upper and Lower Reservoirs LARAP.
19. 
"Land Acquisition Committee" means the committee to be established by each
Local Government following the Location Determination, and required for
implementation of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plans, and
"Land Acquisition Committees" means more than one Land Acquisition
Committee.
- 18 -
20. 
"Local Government" means each of the Cianjur and West Bandung district
(kabupaten) governments, as the case may be. 
1
21. 
"Location Determination" means the location determination (Surat Keputusan
Penetapan Lokasi Pembangunan) for the Project, referred to in Section 5.01(b)
of this Agreement, to be issued by the Governor of West Java Province in order
for (a) land acquisition for the Project to proceed and (b) Land Acquisition
Committees to be formed in accordance with the regulations of the Borrower.
22. 
"Lower Reservoir" means the reservoir with a reservoir surface area at high
water level of approximately 260 hectares and approximately 10 million cubic
meters of active storage and 63 million cubic meters of total reservoir volume
impounded by a roller compacted concrete dam with a maximum height of
approximately 98 meters and with a crest length of approximately 295 meters to
be constructed and operated on the Cisokan River as described in Part 1(a)(i)(A)
of the Project.
23. 
"Matenggeng Pumped Storage Power Project" means the potential hydropower
project for which feasibility study and preparation of design and bid documents
will be carried out under Part 3 of the Project as described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
24. 
"Ministry of Forestry" means the Ministry of Forestry of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto.
25. 
"MW" means megawatts.
26. 
"Principal Project Office" means the Principal Project Office Java-Bali
Hydropower Generation Business Unit (Unit Induk Pembangunan Hidro Jawa
Bali), the department of the Project Implementing Entity responsible for
hydropower generation and specifically for implementation of the Project, or any
successor thereto.
27. 
"Procurement Committee" means each entity established by the Department of
Strategic 
Procurement, 
responsible 
for, 
respectively, 
procurement 
of
goods/works/non-consulting services and procurement of consultants' services
for the Project, as referred to in paragraph 6 of Section L.A of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement; and "Procurement Committees" means both such entities.
28. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006 and May 2010.
-19-
29. 
"Procurement Manual" means the Project Implementing Entity's manual, dated
March 17, 2011, referred to in paragraph I of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and sub-paragraph 1(a) of Section L.B of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Project Implementing Entity and
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such manual.
30. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's procurement plan
for the Project, dated April 19, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
31. 
"Project Area" means the area in West Java Province in the Borrower's territory
in which the Project will be undertaken, within the catchment of the Upper
Cisokan River and comprising the locations of: (a) the Transmission Lines;
(b) the Upper Reservoir, (c) the Lower Reservoir; (d) the area between the Upper
Reservoir and the Lower Reservoir in and under which will be built the related
waterway structures, including two headrace tunnels with a total length of
approximately 2,375 meters, an underground powerhouse, an outdoor 500
kilovolts switchyard and related hydraulic metal works and building works;
(e) the 20 kilovolts distribution line to assist with construction power needs and
approximately 30 kilometers long from the existing Cianjur sub-station; and
(f) the Access Roads from the existing quarry at Gunung Karang.
32. 
"Project Engineer" means the consultant appointed by the Project Implementing
Entity to the Principal Project Office in accordance with the requirements of
Section III of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, with qualifications, experience,
terms of reference and responsibilities referred to in paragraph 5 of Section I.A of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
33. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's plan,
dated March 21, 2011, referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and paragraph 1(a) of Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Project Implementing Entity and the
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such plan.
34. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara, established
pursuant to, and operating in accordance with, the Project Implementing Entity's
Legislation.
35. 
"Project Implementation Unit" means the implementation unit established,
staffed and operated by the Principal Project Office and responsible for project
- 20-
implementation as referred to in paragraph 4 of Section L.A of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
36. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No. 19
of 1960, Law No. 9 of 1969, Government Regulation No. 3 of 1983, Government
Regulation No. 28 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 10 of 1989, and
Government Regulation No. 23 of 1994, and includes any other laws and
regulations governing the organization, reorganization, 
restructuring, and
operations of the Project Implementing Entity, as any of them may be amended
or supplemented from time to time.
37. 
"Project Management Unit" means the management unit established, staffed and
operated by DPT and responsible for project coordination as referred to in
paragraph 3 of Section L.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
38. 
"Project Review Panel" or "PRP" means the panel of independent experts
established by the Project Implementing Entity and acceptable to the Bank to
undertake periodic, comprehensive and independent reviews of the design,
construction, and initial reservoir filling (dam safety) of the project works as
referred to in paragraph 9(a) of Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, as said panel may be reconstituted from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank under terms of reference and with experts whose
qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank.
39. 
"Province" means, a province, a sub-national administrative unit of the
Borrower's territory.
40. 
"Provincial Government" means the government of the Borrower's West Java
Province.
41. 
"Resettlement Site" means each site identified in accordance with the Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plans, for Affected Persons who are
physically displaced.
42. 
"Screening Procedures" means the screening procedures set forth in Annex 10 to
the LARAPs.
43. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 5.01(a)
and Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower
shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
44. 
"Supporting Plan" means each of the plans that support the Environmental
Management Plan, each as identified in sub-paragraph 7(b) of Section I.D of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and each as shall be agreed between the
-21-
Project Implementing Entity and the Bank and adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity and thereafter implemented in accordance with the schedule
set out in the Environmental Management Plan; and "Supporting Plans" means,
collectively, all such plans.
45. 
"Transmission Lines" means the two 500 kilovolts transmission lines to be
constructed under Part 1(b) of the Project to connect the Upper Cisokan Pumped
Storage Power Plant to the existing Java-Bali power system at the existing
Cibinong-Saguling line.
46. 
"Transmission Lines LARAP" means the Project Implementing Entity's "Tower
Site and Row Transmission Line", dated March 
18, 
201 1meeting the
requirements of the operational policy of the Bank (Operational Policy 4.12/Bank
Procedures 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement in effect as of the date of such
LARAP) and acceptable to the Bank, setting out the arrangements pertaining to
land acquisition and the compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of
Affected Persons in respect of the Transmission Lines under the Project, as the
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such plan.
47. 
"Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Power Plant" means the pumped storage power
plant to be designed, built and operated with support of the Project, including the
Upper Reservoir, Lower Reservoir, and their appurtenant structures located in the
Project Area with an installed capacity of 1,040 megawatts as further described
in Part 1(a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
48. 
"Upper Reservoir" means the reservoir with a reservoir surface area at high water
volume of approximately 80 hectares and approximately 10 million cubic meters
of active storage and 14 million cubic meters of total reservoir volume
impounded by a roller compacted concrete dam with a maximum height of
approximately 75.5 meters to be constructed and operated on the Cirumamis
River under Part 1 (a)(i)(B) of the Project.
49. 
"Upper and Lower Reservoirs LARAP" means the Project Implementing Entity's
"Upper and Lower Reservoir Land Acquisition and. Resettlement Action Plan",
dated March 18, 2011 v meeting the requirements of the Bank (Operational Policy
4.12/Bank Procedures 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement in effect as of the date of
such LARAP) and acceptable to the Bank, setting out the arrangements
pertaining to land acquisition 
and the resettlement, rehabilitation, 
and
compensation of Affected Persons in respect of the Upper Reservoir and the
Lower Reservoir under the Project, as the same may be modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules or annexes to such plan.
