OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8165-MX
Loan Agreement
(Modernization of the National Meteorological Service for
Improved Climate Adaptation Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 3	
, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Alj4USt .3020	
, 2012, between UNITED
MEXICAN STATES (`Borrower) duly represented by its Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
(as set forth in the table of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes
of supporting the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project")) shall be
used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary and
public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II— LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred five million two
hundred sixty three thousand one hundred fifty seven Dollars and eighty nine
cents ($105,263,157.89), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the Project.
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower's
representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs
the Bank, the Borrower's representative for purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director General
of BANSEFI, or the Director General Adjunto de Banca Institucional of
BANSEFI or any person or persons whom such representative shall designate in
writing.
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
	
2.07. (a)	
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or. vice versa; or (C) all the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
-2-
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section N of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III — PROJECT
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through CONAGUA, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that
BANSEFI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Contrato
de Mandato.
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that,
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto.
5.02. The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Borrower, through separate legal opinions satisfactory to the Bank, issued by
Borrower counsel acceptable to the Bank, from SHCP, CONAGUA, and
BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by
BANSEFI counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicates that the Contrato de
Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower, and BANSEFI and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and BANSEFI in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato's terms.
5.03. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on November 15, 2013.
ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Credito Pziblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be
(a) the Titular de la Unidad de Credito Publico of SHCP or any person or
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose, or
(b) the Director General of BANSEFI or the Director General Adjunto de Banca
Institucional of BANSEFI or any person or persons whom such representative
shall designate in writing.
6.02. The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre III, Piso 3
Col. Guadalupe Inn, 01020
Delegaci6n Alvaro Obregon, Mexico D.F.
6.03. The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:	
Telex:	
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD	
248423(MCI) or	
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.	
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 	
eXi CO U 	Uni 	
t(Pxrpv	
as of the day
and year first above written.
UNITED ME A STATES
	
By ;' 	 d
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DE'
By
Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the human resources, institutional,
and infrastructure capacity of the SMN to meet the increasing demand for timely and
accurate weather and climate information for the purposes of water resources and disaster
risk management in the face of climate change and climate variability.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1 : Strengthening Institutional Capacity and Client Communications
Strengthening the technical and institutional capacity of SMN to respond to the growing
demand of better hydro-meteorological services through:
(a)	
The provision of capacity building and training to SMN through, inter alia:
(i)
the carrying out of a human resources assessment to identify SMN's
training needs at the national level, and to thereafter, develop a strategy
to address said needs;
(ii)
the establishment and functioning of a SMN training center responsible
for organizing and developing all aspects of education and training in
line with the requirements identified in the assessment referred to in Part
1(a)(i) of the Project;
(iii)
the expansion of an on-line training program conducted by CONAGUA
and SMN in association with specialized institutions for purposes of
offering study programs in the areas of, inter alia: atmospheric sciences,
modeling and operational hydrology and water management and
hydrometeorology;
(iv)
the provision of short, medium-term and on-the-job training to selected
SMN's staff in the area of hydrometeorology, including the financing of
post graduate education and specialized programs and/or courses on such
area; and
(v)	
the establishment and functioning of a development and technological
innovation unit within SMN to develop applications of numeral models
and systems to assimilate observations from surface and upper air, radar,
and satellite observation networks.
(b)	
The Improvement of SMN's business strategies and processes through, inter alia:
(i) the development and implementation of an institutional restructuring plan at
-6-
the national level; (ii) the redesign and streamlining of SMN's internal processes;
and (iii) the design and implementation of a quality management plan to increase
the quality and accuracy of SMN's forecasts and related products and meet
WMO guidelines.
(c)
The strengthening of SMN's communication strategy with its users through, inter
alia: (i) the carrying out of an assessment to determine the users' needs and
preferences in terms of meteorological, climatic and hydrological information;
(ii) . the development of a corporate communications plan, including the
development of an accessible catalog of SMN's products and services through a
renovated SMN's website; and (iii) the development of systems to asses users'
satisfaction through consultations, focus groups and field surveys.
(d)
The provision of support to the PCO in charge of the implementation and
administration of the Project through, inter alia: (i) the provision of technical
assistance to integrate the engineering components of the Project; and (ii) the
provision of technical assistance to develop and put in operation a monitoring
and evaluation system for the Project.
Part 2: Modernizing Observation Infrastructure
Modernization of infrastructure of SMN for collecting and processing hydro-
meteorological data through:
(a)
The improvement of the reliability and availability of hydro-meteorological data
by modernizing and upgrading SMN's observational infrastructure and
instrumentation.
(b)
The automation of measuring processes in selected locations in order to obtain
real-time information.
(c)
The expansion of the coverage of data collection networks to meet forecasting
and users' needs.
(d)
The establishment of specialized networks for lightening detection and solar
radiation monitoring.
(e)
The provision of support to improve the radar network operation and
maintenance.
(f)
The carrying out of an assessment of SMN's information and data processing
systems.
-7-
Part 3 : Imnrovin2 Meteorological Forecasts
Improvement of the quality and reliability of weather forecasts and hydrological
prediction and the timeliness of information and alerts, and development of high-quality
useful climate services through:
(a)
The improvement of meteorological products and weather forecast through, inter
alia: (i) the development of tools and applications to combine conventional
meteorological data with remote sensing information and numerical modeling
techniques; (ii) the provision of training to strengthen SMN staff's professional
skills on meteorological forecasting; (iii) the provision of supercomputer
services; (iv) the development of specialized products for different types of users;
and (v) the development and implementation of an integrated weather forecast
system.
(b)
The improvement of the provision of climatic information and prediction through
the establishment of a national center for climate services aimed at supporting the
development of new tools, climatic information and modeling and forecasting
technologies, including the carrying out of the following activities: (i) the
preparation of an assessment and selection of global climate models; (ii) the
development of a strategy to generate regional climatic projections; (iii) the
updating of existing baseline projections and impact assessments related to
climate change; (iv) the development of seasonal climate change scenarios and
information products for specific sectors; and (v) the preparation of an
assessment to identify clients' needs and satisfaction.
(c)	
The development of an information system within SMN for data management to
display, transmit and export data from SMN's stations to other meteorological
systems through, inter alia: (i) the acquisition and utilization of equipment,
including supercomputers and specialized equipment, for measuring and
forecasting river stream flows; (ii) the development of a database for weather and
climate data to be used for enhancing SMN's information system; (iii) the
improvement of SMN's website to provide appropriate products and information
to its users; and (iv) the development of a concept of operations study to define
how future forecasts operations evolved.
Part 4 : Developing Climate Regional Capacity
Strengthening local and regional capacities for delivering hydro-meteorological services
more efficiently in approximately five (5) Selected Basin Organizations through:
(a)	
The provision of support for the establishment of regional centers in the Selected
Basin Organizations aimed at developing appropriate functions including, inter
alia: (i) the operation and maintenance of observational radars; (ii) the processing
of data and interpretation of local weather conditions; (iii) the preparation and
-8-
communication of high-resolution forecasts and warnings; and (iv) the
customization of products based on local needs.
(b)	
The implementation of approximately four (4) pilot projects to develop integrated
end-to-end hydro-meteorological information and management systems in
Selected Basins, including, inter alia: (i) the improvement of short-term and
seasonal weather and hydrological forecasts; (ii) the review, of water allocation
policies and operational rules of reservoirs, including the regulation, norms and
procedures for water allocation and operation of reservoirs; (iii) the development
of information systems for the efficiently allocation of water in normal
conditions; (iv) the development of an early warning system to reduce losses due
to floods and droughts; (v) the strengthening of observation teams operating
weather and water data collection systems in each Selected Basin; (vi) the
provision of on-the-job training; (vii) the reengineering and modernization of
observation networks; and (viii) the introduction of modern approaches to
operate and maintain calibration of sensors and quality control of data processes.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.	Implementation Arrangements
A.	
Institutional Arrangements
1.
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, shall maintain at all times during the
implementation of the Project, a technical advisory council, with members,
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational
Manual.
2.
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall
maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project, a Project
coordination office ("PCO"), headed by a coordinator and staff in number, with
qualifications and working under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
responsible for the management, coordination, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project, including, without limitation, the carrying out of the
procurement and financial management activities under the Project, together with
the responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements, financial reports,
Project Reports, and maintenance of the records and accounts referred to in
Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
B.	
Operational Manual
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall
implement the Project in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to
the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (a) the detailed description of all Project
activities, their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmark in
relation thereto; (b) the Project administrative, financial, accounting, auditing,
procurement and disbursement procedures, including all relevant standard
documents; (c) the Environmental Management Framework and Resettlement
Policy Framework for the Project; (d) the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (e) the
plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the Project; and (f) the
performance indicators for the Project.
2.
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or otherwise fail
to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
3.
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
-10-
C.	
Contrato de Mandato
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato),
satisfactory to the Bank, among SHCP, CONAGUA and BANSEFI, whereby,
inter alia:
(a)
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, BANSEFI agrees to represent the
Borrower vis-a-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds;
(b)
BANSEFI agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(c)
the Borrower, through CONAGUA, agrees to carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines and the Operational Manual (including the Project's financial
management and procurement arrangements);
(d)
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines), provide for the
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its
effects, or, if applicable, require the restitution of funds transferred under
said Contrato de Mandato; and
(e)	
the Borrower, through CONAGUA, agrees to cooperate fully with
BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply with all of
BANSEFI's obligations referred to in this Section.
2.	
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not amend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Contrato de
Mandato or any provision thereof, except as the Bank may otherwise agree. In
case of any conflict between the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
-11-
D.
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E.
Safeguards
1.
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall carry
out the Project, and shall cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with
the provisions set forth in the Environmental Management Framework and the
Resettlement Policy Framework.
2.
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall ensure
that the terms of reference for any consultancies related to studies, technical
assistance and/or capacity building under this Agreement shall be satisfactory to
the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference
shall duly incorporate the requirements of the World Bank's Safeguard Policies
then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such studies, technical
assistance and/or capacity building activities.
F.	
Others
In order to carry out any given Project activity which requires the provision of
support of a Specialized Entity, the Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the
participation of SMN, shall, prior to the carrying out of any said Project activity:
(a) select a Specialized Entity in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and (b) thereafter, enter into a Technical
Assistance Agreement with such Specialized Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, whereby, inter alia:
(i)
the Specialized Entity agrees to: (A) provide technical assistance to
support CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, in the
implementation of the Project; and (B) provide said technical assistance
through its own staff or sub-consultants hired in accordance with the
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(ii)
CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, agrees to pay the
Specialized Entity a fee for the services the Specialized Entity renders
under the Technical Assistance Agreement; and
(iii)	
the Specialized Entity agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-12-
Section II.	
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A.
Project Reports
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of the performance indicators included in the Operational Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B.
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall
maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank, as part of each Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, with the participation of SMN, shall have
its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III.	
Procurement
A.	
General
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2.
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
-13-
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
4.	
Special Provisions. The Borrower, through CONAGUA, shall: (a) supply the
SEPA with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within
forty-five (45) days after the date of this Agreement; and (b) update the
Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as needed through the duration of the
Project, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and
supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated Procurement
Plan immediately thereafter.
B.	
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1.
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2.
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(a) Direct Contracting
C.	
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1.
Quality-and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
-14-
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Sqlection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single-source Selection
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the selection of Individual Consultants
Single Source of Individual Consultants
D.	Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV.	Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A.	
General
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2.	
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A.I
immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided
under this Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures.
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the
Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category,
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in
each Category.
-15-
Amount of the Loan
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated
to be Financed
Category
(expressed in USD)
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works,
19,600,000
100%
consultants' services, non-
consulting services, Training
and Operating Costs under
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, consultants'
41,000,000
100%
services, non-consulting
services and Training under
Part 2 of the Project
(3) Goods, consultants'
16,200,000
100%
services and non-consulting
services under Part 3 of the
Project
(4) Goods, works,
28,200,000
100%
consultants' services and
non-consulting services
under Part 4 of the Project
(5) Front-end Fee
263,157.89
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(6)
Interest	
Rate	
Cap	
or
0
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium
Section 2.07 (c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
105,263,157.89
B.	
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed twenty million Dollars
($20,000,000) equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but
on or after January 1, 2012 (but in no case more than one year prior to the date of
this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures.
2.	
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
-16-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15,
2024.
APPENDIX
Section I.	Definitions
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2.
`BANSEFI" means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, Sociedad
Nacional de Credito, Institucion de Banca de Desarrollo, a Mexican development
bank created pursuant to the BANSEFI Organic Law (or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank) acting as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the
Loan.
3.
`BANSEFI Organic Law" means Ley Organica del Banco del Ahorro Nacional y
Servicios Financieros, the Borrower's law that created BANSEFI, as said law was
published on June 1, 2001 in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la
Federacion); and said term includes the regulations to said law, as said law and
regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement.
4. "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section N of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
"CONAGUA" means Comision Nacional del Agua, the Borrower's National Water
Commission.
6.
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
7.
"Contrato de Mandato" means the agreement referred to in Section I.0 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
8.
"Environmental Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank, dated December 2011, and published in CONAGUA's
website on February 1, 2012, which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the applicable
institutional and regulatory environmental framework governing the Project; (b) the
guidelines for carrying out the environmental/social screenings/assessments for the
carrying out of Project activities; and (c) the procedures to mitigate, prevent and
manage environmental and social impacts associated with the carrying out of Project
activities; as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.
9.
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
-18-
10. "Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under
the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or
means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must
move to another location); or (b) right, title or interest in an' house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive assets
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or
place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently.
11. "Operating Costs" means the reasonable minor incremental operating expenses
incurred by CONAGUA and/or SMN, on account of Project implementation,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including costs of office operation and
maintenance, travel and per diem, but excluding salaries of CONAGUA and/or
SMN's officials and public servants of the Borrower's civil service.
12. "Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated March 30, 2012, and
referred to in Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
13. "PCO" means the office referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
14. "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
15. "Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 1, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
16. "Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's framework, acceptable to
the Bank, dated January 2012 and published in CONAGUA's website on February
1, 2012, which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the principles and objectives governing
Involuntary Resettlement preparation and implementation; and (b) a description of
the process for preparing and approving resettlement plans; as said framework may
be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
17. "Selected Basins" means any of the following river basins: (i) Chiapas Coastal River
Basins in the State of Chiapas; (ii) Valley of Mexico; (iii) Veracruzanos Rivers in
the State of Veracruz; (iv) Yaqui River Basin in the State of Sonora; and any
additional or substitute river basin which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the
-19-
Operational Manual, and selected by the Borrower with the prior agreement of the
Bank; and "Selected Basin" means each Selected Basin.
18. "Selected Basin Organizations" means any of the following basin organizations of
CONAGUA: (i) Ciudad Obregon (or Hermosillo); (ii) Merida; (iii) Tuxla Gutierrez;
(iv) Veracruz; (v) Valley of Mexico; and any additional or substitute basin
organization which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual,
and selected by the Borrower with the prior agreement of the Bank.
19. "SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible procurement plans execution system.
20. "SHCP" means the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
21. "SMN" means the Coordinacion General del Servicio Metereologico Nacional, the
Borrower's National Meteorological Service, an administrative unit of CONAGUA.
22. "Specialized Entity" means one or more entities agreed upon with the Bank, hired
by CONAGUA and SMN following the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement to provide highly specialized technical assistance to CONAGUA
and SMN during the implementation of the Project.
23. "Technical Assistance Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. "Training" means the reasonable expenditures (not covered under consultants'
services or under non-consulting services) incurred by CONAGUA and/or SMN
with respect to: (i) travel, room, fees, board and per diem expenditures incurred by
trainers and trainees in connection with their training; (ii) training facility and
equipment rental expenses; and (iii) training material preparation, acquisition,
reproduction and distribution.
25.
"World Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the World Bank's operational policies
and procedures set forth in the World Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 published at
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
-20-
