(MIAL
MWENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8113 - BR
Loan Agreement
(Sergipe Water Project - Programa Aguas de Sergipe)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SERGIPE
Dated 
, 20AZ
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
A, i 3 
, 
20d4 
between
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and STATE OF SERGIPE ("Borrower"). The Bank and the Borrower hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy million two hundred and
seventy five thousand Dollars ($70,275,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Borrower's Secretary of Environment and Water Resources.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior non-objection
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid :ut of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall, under the overall coordination and supervision of
SEMARH through the UAPAS:
(a) 
carry out Part I of the Project through SEMARH with the assistance of
ADEMA and ITPS;
-2-
(b) 
carry out Part II of the Project through SEMARH and SEAGRI with the
assistance of COHIDRO and EMDAGRO; and
(c) 
cause Part III of the Project to be carried out by DESO, all in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
DESO Legislation and/or the Cooperation Entity Legislation shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of DESO
and/or the respective agency to perform any of its obligations under the
DESO Implementation Agreement and/or the corresponding Cooperation
Agreement, respectively.
(b) 
DESO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the DESO
Implementation Agreement.
(c) 
Any Cooperating Entity shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the corresponding Cooperation Agreement.
4.02. 
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 7.02 of the General Conditions,
it is understood that, if any of the Cooperating Entities or DESO shall have failed
to comply with any obligation under the Cooperation Agreements or the
Implementation Agreement, respectively, or a situation shall have arisen so as to
materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of any
Cooperating Entity or DESO to carry out its obligations under the relevant
Cooperation Agreement or under the Implementation Agreement, and the
Borrower has been unable to remedy such lack of compliance, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account for Eligible Expenditures related to
the Project Parts affected by such lack of compliance.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the DESO Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and DESO.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following:
(a) 
The DESO Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and DESO and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and DESO in accordance with its terms.
(b) 
The Loan has been registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the piovisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on July 26, 2(13.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Borrower's Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Estado de Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Hidricos
Av. Hericlito Rollemberg, 4444
Distrito Industrial de Aracaju
Aracaju, SE, 49030-640
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-79) 3179-7205
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Minist6rio do Planejamentc, Orgamento e Gestdo
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco K - 50 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70040-906
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
/a& 
6?,&4 
e 
/ 
P,i 
, as of the day
and year first above written.
STATE OF SERGIPE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to promote the efficient and sustainable use of
water in the Sergipe River Basin by strengthening the Borrower's sector management,
enhancing soil management practices and improving water quality.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part I: Integrated Water Resource Management and Institutional Development
I. 
Integrated Water Resource \4anagement:
Improvement of the Borrower's water resources and environmental management
capacity through carrying out of activities designed to promote an increased integration
between policies and practices, coordination among related agencies addressing water
resources planning regulation, management and services provision, including:
(a) 
preparatory work for the design of the institutional model of an agency in
charge of water resource management;
(b) 
development of water 
resources and environmental management
procedures and instruments;
(c) 
improvement of the soil management practices in the Sergipe River
Basin;
(d) 
development and inplementation of new regional management models
for the provision and management of solid waste and water and
sanitation services for rural and small towns; and
(e) 
carrying out of corrmunication and environmental education programs.
2. 
Project Management:
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity for overall Project management,
monitoring, evaluation and dissemination.
Part H: Water for Irrigation
Improvement of the technical, institutional and environmental sustainability of
the two irrigation perimeters of PoqAo da Ribeira dam and Jacarecica I dam, and
provision of technical assistance to support future improvements of the Jacarecica II dam
-6-
irrigation perimeter and to promote improved environmental soil and water use practices
within targeted micro-basins of the Jacarecica sub-basin, including:
(a) 
rehabilitation and modernization of public irrigation perimeters and
water infrastructure in the PoqAo da Ribeira and Jacarecica I dam
perimeters;
(b) 
promotion of environmental management through the implementation of
selected activities designed to promote soil and water conservation and
more efficient 
irrigation methods for farmers;
(c) 
rehabilitation of existing tubular wells in the Sergipe River Basin and
construction of small-scale rural and small-town water supply and
sanitation solutions in selected localities of the Sergipe River Basin;
(d) 
minor rehabilitation of the following dams: Pogdo da Ribeira, Jacarecica
I and Jacarecica II, based on the recommendations of the Independent
Dam Safety Panel;
(e) 
capacity building and institutional strengthening of SEAGRI, COHIDRO
and EMDAGRO.
Part II: Water for Cities
Complement the Borrower's ongoing efforts to finance interventions aimed at
improving the quality of life of residents in targeted municipalities in the Sergipe River
Basin as well as the quality of water and sustainability of the environment in these areas
through the expansion of water supply and sanitation and urban drainage infrastructure,
and the improvement in the efficiency and quality of services offered by DESO,
including:
1. 
Services Expansion in the MRA:
(a) 
Expansion of the existing wastewater systems and treatment plants
within the territorial jurisdiction of the Borrower's municipality of
Aracaju; and
(b) 
Construction of wastewater systems and treatment plant within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Borrower's municipality of Barra dos
Coqueiros.
-7-
2. 
Services Expansion and Improvements in the Sergipe River Basin:
(a) 
carrying out of activities for the expansion and optimization of water
supply conveyance systems, and sanitation and drainage services in
selected Borrower's municipalities located within the Sergipe River
Basin (the Water S apply Subprojects); and
(b) 
provision of teclnical assistance to DESO to enhance corporate
governance and strategic planning, raise the quality of water supply and
sanitation services, and improvement of the operational efficiency,
including, inter a fia, the carrying out of the following studies: (i)
corporate management planning; (ii) management plan for wastewater
services; (iii) institutional arrangements and instruments for service
provision; (iv) water loss control and energy efficiency programs; and (v)
integrated operaticn of water supply sources in metropolitan area to
optimize costs and water reliability.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
throughout Project implementation, operate and maintain: (i) the UAPAS
within SEMARH; and (ii) an Advisory Council, all with the powers and
responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(b) 
no later than two months from the Effective Date, have the UAPAS fully
staffed with personnel with experience and qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank, including the following key staff: coordinators and experts to
handle the technical, procurement, financial management and safeguard
aspects of their respective parts of the Project.
B. 
Agreements
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with DESO (the DESO
Implementation Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including, inter alia: (i) the Borrower's obligation of making
part of the proceeds of Loan available to DESO for the implementation
of Part I11 of the Project; (ii) the arrangements for the implementation of
Part III of the Project; and (iii) DESO's obligation to abide by the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines and to comply with the pertinent provisions of this
Agreement in respect of said Part of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, prior to initiating any Project activity for the benefit
of a Cooperation Entity, enter into an agreement (the Cooperation
Agreement) with the corresponding Cooperating Entity under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia: (i) the
arrangements for the implementation of Parts I and II of the Project; (ii)
the Cooperation Entity's obligation to: (A) abide by the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines, and with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement in
respect of said Parts of the Project; and (B) support SEMARH in the
procurement process related to those parts of the Project, including
preparation of terms of reference and supervision of works.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under DESO
Implementation Agreement and under each Cooperation Agreement in such
-9-
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce the DESO Implementation Agreement or any Cooperation Agreement or
any of their provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Operational Manual
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall: (a) carry out Parts I and II of the Project; and (b) cause DESO to
carry out Part III of the Project, in accordance with the Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia:
(a) 
the functions, responsibilities and training requirements for the personnel
responsible for tffe coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project, including the UAPAS and the Advisory Council;
(b) 
procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for
financial management, disbursement and audits of the Project and
respective forms, reports and guidelines;
(c) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(d) 
the Environmental Management Plan, the Environmental Construction
Manual and the Resettlement Policy Framework;
(e) 
the criteria for selecting and approving Water Supply Subprojects; and
(f) 
the counterpart funding requirements of the Project.
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, in accordance with the Resettlement
Policy Framework, and prior to initiating the bidding process for any
-10-
fo
contract for construction works that involve Resettlement, any needed
Resettlement Plan; and
(b) 
carry out such each Resettlement Plan in accordance with its terms, and
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental
Management Plan (including the Environmental Construction Manual, the
chance find procedures for cultural property and the pest management, forestry
and reforestation procedures) and furnish to the Bank any needed documentation
as required by this Environmental Management Plan.
3. 
The Borrower shall, prior to initiating any rehabilitation activities under Part II
(d) of the Project:
(a) 
establish a panel of experts (the "Independent Dam Safety Panel")
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to review and advise the
Borrower on matters relative to the safety of said dams and other critical
aspects of said dams, as further detailed in said terms of reference;
(b) 
cause the Independent Dam Safety Panel to: (i) meet regularly during
Project implementation; (ii) evaluate periodically the safety of such dams
in accordance with the terms of reference mentioned in (a) herein, and, as
a result of said evaluation, identify any remedial action to improve their
safety or any critical aspect of said dams; and (iii) thereafter, prepare and
furnish to the Bank, an action plan (Dam Safety Action Plan), acceptable
to the Bank; and
(c) 
thereafter, furnish evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, of the actions taken to address any such deficiencies.
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.D (d) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement in respect of any given Project activity under Part 111.1 (a) of the
Project in which works are involved, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
upon completion of the Borrower's environmental licensing review
process and/or upon the definition of the precise sitting alignments, and
prior to the carrying out of any said works, if applicable as determined by
the Bank, carry out and/or cause to be carried out (as the case may be) a
supplemental environmental impact assessment for the corresponding
works under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
based on said supplemental environmental impact assessment, and if
determined by the Bank, prepare and /or cause to be prepared and furnish
to the Bank, an z.cceptable supplemental environmental management
plan for said works; and
(c) 
thereafter, implement and/or cause to be implemented, said supplemental
environmental management plan in accordance with its terms and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and/or cause the Cooperation Entities to ensure, that
the terms of reference for any technical assistance in respect of any Project
activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that
end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank
Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such
technical assistance.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not ater than 45 days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the rrovisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim naudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
- 12 -
Section II. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Non-Consulting Services and Works. 
All goods, Non-Consulting
Services and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consulting Services and
Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, Non-Consulting Services and works shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consulting Services and
Works. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, Non-
Consulting Services, and works. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding including in respect of goods, works and
Non- 
Consulting Services, pregdo eletr6nico (set forth in the Guarantor's
Law no, 10520 of July 17, 2002 and in Decree no 5450 of May 31, 2005),
under any e-procurement system approved by the Bank, subject to the
following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be
acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Shopping, including in respect of goods and services, pregdo eletr6nico set
forth in Guarantor's Law no 10520, of July 17, 2002 and in Decree no 5450
of May 31, 2005.
(c) Direct Contracting.
-13 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the- methods of procurement,- other than- Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection
(b) Quality-Based Selection
(c) Consultants' Qualifications
(d) Fixed Budget Selection
(e) Single-Source Selecticn
(f) Procedures set forth Se-.tion V of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection
of Individual Consultants
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth
in paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants
). 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
-14-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, Non- 
70,099,312 
100%
consulting Services,
consultants' services,
Training and Operating
Costs for all Parts of
the Project (other than
under Part II. I
thereof)
(2) Front-end Fee 
175,688 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
Amount due under
Caps and Interest Rate 
0 
Section 2.07 (c) of this
Collars 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
70,275,000
3. 
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) 
the term "Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower or DESO for the
purposes of the Project and directly related to training activities
described in the Project, including, inter alia, costs related to workshops,
seminars, conferences, study tours, training registration fees, training
facilities and equipment rentals, and local travel costs and per diems for
the UAPAS and other selected staff of the Borrower or DESO;
-15-
(b) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable cost of recurrent
expenditures for the implementation of the Project (which would not have
been incurred absent the Project) such as lodging and per diem and
transportation costs, but excluding expenditures for civil servants' salaries
and DESO's staff salaries; and
(c) 
the term "Non-Consulting 
Services" means services that are not
intellectual by nature which can be procured on the basis of performance
of measurable physic.al outputs, including, inter alia, surveys, topography,
soil studies, printing and transport services.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made within twelve months of the date of this
Agreement but on or after November 23, 2011.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017. The Bank will only grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank
that it agrees with such extension.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date such, repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2017 
2,5%
Through November 15, 2036
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-17-
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of suc2 sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
.4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
.5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedile shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"ADEMA" means Administraqdo -Estadual do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower's
environmental agency established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 2181
dated October. 12, 1978, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
"Advisory Council" means the council referred to in Section I.A. 1. (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be established through a Borrower's Decree.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means 
the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"COHIDRO" means Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Hidricos e
IrrigaVdo, the Borrower's water resources and irrigation development company
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 2985 dated May 23, 1991, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.B. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"Cooperating Entity" means collectively ADEMA, ITPS, SEAGRI, COHIDRO,
and EMDAGRO.
10. 
"Cooperation Entity Legislation" means the legislation creating COHIDRO,
ITPS, ADEMA and EMDAGRO referred to in paragraphs 1,4,13 and 19 of this
Schedule.
4 
-19-
1. 
"Dam Safety Action Plan" means the plan arising from the recommendations of
the Independent Dam Safety Panel referred to in Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
..2. 
"DESO" means Companhia de Saneamento de Sergipe, the Borrower's water
supply and sanitation agency established pursuant to the DESO Legislation.
.3. 
"DESO Implementation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section
I. B. 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"DESO Legislation" means the Borrower's Decree (Decreto-Lei) No. 109 of
August 25, 1969, authorizing the change of the Borrower's sanitation department
into a corporation of mixed economy - Companhia de Saneamento de Sergipe -
DESO, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
15. 
"EMDAGRO" means Empresa de Desenvolvimento Agropecudrio de Sergipe,
the Borrower's agricultural development company established pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 2960 of April 9, 1991, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
16. 
"Environmental Assessment" means the assessment prepared in accordance with
Bank Safeguards Policies (Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01) dated
October 25, 2010, and set forth in the Operational Manual.
17. 
"Environmental Construction Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated
October 25, 2010 (included in the Operational Manual), setting forth
environmental guidelines to be followed by construction companies during the
execution of works under tie Project.
18. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated October
25, 2010, (included in the Operational Manual) setting forth the actions 
for
assessment and management of the environmental, cultural property, pest
management, forests, natural habitats, and safety of dams aspects of the Project,
including therein the requirements applicable to Part I.1 (d) of the Project which
are contained in the plan approved by the Bank for the Integrated Solid Waste
Management and Carbon Finance Project on November 2, 2010, set forth in the
Operational Manual.
19. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
-20-
20. 
"Independent Dam Safety Panel" means the panel composed of independent
experts to be established pursuant to Section I. E. 3. (a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
21. 
"Irrigation Activity" or "Activity" means any of the activities to be carried out
under Part II. (a) of the Project.
22. 
"ITPS" means Instituto de Tecnologia e Pesquisa de Sergipe, the Borrower's
Institute of Technology and Research, established pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 5511 dated December 28, 2004, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
23. 
"Jacarecica" means a tributary river of the Sergipe River Basin.
24. 
"Jacarecica Dams I and II" mean the two dams that form the water reservoirs
located in the Jacarecica river.
25. 
"MRA" means the Metropolitan Region of Aracaju described in the Borrower's
Complementary Law (Lei Complementar) No. 25 dated December 29, 1995.
26. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section I.D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and approved by the Bank on November 22, 2011.
27. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 2011.
28. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, as
approved by the Bank on November 23, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16
of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions
of said paragraphs.
29. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
30. 
"Resettlement Plan" means any plan prepared following the requirements of the
Resettlement Policy Framework and approved by the Bank.
-21-
31. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's framework dated
September 30, 2010 and set forth in the Operational Manual, defining the
procedures for the involuntary resettlement of population in connection with the
works to be carried out under the Project and including therein the requirements
applicable to Part I. 1 (d) of the Project which are contained in the framework
approved by the Bank for Ihe Integrated Solid Waste Management and Carbon
Finance Project on August 19, 2010.
32. 
"SEAGRI" means Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e do Desenvolvimento
Agrdrio, the Borrower's Secretariat of Agriculture and Agrarian Development.
33. 
"SEMARH" means Secretaria de Estado de Meio Ambiente e Recursos
Hidricos, the Borrower's Secretariat of Environment and Water Resources.
34. 
"Sergipe River Basin" means the area drained by the Sergipe River and its
tributaries and comprising 26 municipalities set forth in the Borrower's Law No
3.870 as published by the Borrower's Official Gazette on September 25, 1997.
35. 
"UAPAS" means Unidade Ticnica de Administragdo do Programa 14guas de
Sergipe, the unit established with responsibilities for project implementation
within SEMARH pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 26830 dated January 4,
2010 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette dated January 6, 2010.
36. 
"Water Supply Subprojects" means any of the investments under Part 111.2 (a) of
the Project which meet the eligibility criteria and requirements set forth in the
Operational Manual.
-22-
