"ouums
LOAN NUMBER 8213-ID
Loan Agreement
(National Community Empowerment Program
in Urban Areas for 2012-2015)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
December 
2S 
, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8213-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated f)ecembec 
, 2012, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred sixty-six million United
States Dollars (US$266,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of
this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not
later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2 of 34
2.04. 
The interest pzyable by th. Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for t1e Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversion of at or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
interest payab.e by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall
be determined in accordat ce % ith the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of
thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (-) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of t ie Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreerr ent.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at a:y time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change
of the Loan Curreincy of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interes: rate basis ipplizable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan withd-awn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate,
or vice versa; (B i all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate
and the Variable S;pread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate
and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn ,nd cutstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of En Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable
Rate or the Refere ice Rate.
(b) 
Any cDnversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Lank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditior s, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Artick: IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
3 of 34
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Public Works, in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except
as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Directorate General of Debt Management
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
62-21-381-2859
Jakarta
4 of 34
5.13. 
The Bank's Ac.dress is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Tel(:x: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Robert Pakpahan
Title: 
Expert Staff of the MOF
on State Revenue
With Full Mandate
as DG of Debt Management
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
'fO6AA 
P
Title: 
AcTitG 
couWY 
DfXECIDN, 
IvooriA
5 of34
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the Republic of Indonesia to ensure the urban
poor in Participating Kelurahans benefit from improved local governance and living
conditions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Capacity Building for Communities and Local Governments
Carrying out community development capacity building training and workshops and
conducting facilitation for:
(a) 
BKMs, focused on the preparation of Community Development Plans, use of
Kelurahan Grants and implementation of Sub-projects, and for BKMs that
have received. Kelurahan Grants, assistance to support consolidation of
various poverty alleviation and community driven development programs;
(b) 
community 
groups 
in Participating Kelurahans 
including 
community
volunteers and Local Government officials in community development
planning and participation in and monitoring of Sub-projects; and
(c) 
Revolving Loan Funds unit staff to support well-performing Revolving Loan
Funds, under the Revolving Loan Funds development strategy.
Part 2: Kelurahan Grants
(a) 
Providing Kelurahan Grants to Participating Kelurahans to co-finance Sub-
projects identified in Community Development Plans, which consist of block
grants for: (i) infrastructure investment based on proposals from community
groups consistent with the priorities in the Community Development Plans;
(ii) income generating activities undertaken by community groups supported
by Revolving Loan Funds; and (iii) social programs to benefit the poorest and
most vulnerable groups or individuals; and
(b) 
Providing Kelurahan Grants to Participating Kelurahans to co-finance Sub-
projects identified in Community Development Plans, which consist of block
grants for programs targeted to the needs of specific areas, including: (i) pilot
interventions for women's groups to enhance participation; (ii) spatial
development programs for neighborhood infrastructure development targeting
the poorest; and (iii) interventions to strengthen the livelihood of poor
comnunities.
6 of 34
Pv rt 3: Implementation Support and Technical Assistance
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of staff of the Project Management Unit, Province-
level government agencies, Participating Kecamatans, Participating Kotas,
Participating 
Kabupatens 
and 
Participating 
Kelurahans 
in 
Project
implementation ar,d monitoring, including through the National Management
Consultants, Over;ight Consultants, City Coordinators, and Facilitators.
(b) 
Carryiig out and supporting monitoring and evaluation.
Part 4. Contingency for Disaste- Response
Providing pre:aredness aid rapid response measures to address disaster, emergency
and/or catastr:phic events, as needed, at the Kelurahan level through Sub-projects
and/or using the Project implementation arrangements.
7 of 34
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1I 
At the national level, the Borrower, through MPW, shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project shall be implemented under the umbrella of PNPM, and
subject to the overall guidance of Pokja Pengendali PNPM;
(b) 
maintain, until completion of the Project: (i) the PMU, established in MPW,
headed by an appropriately qualified project manager, and responsible for the
management and monitoring of the Project; and (ii) the Central PIU (Satker),
established in MPW, responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Project
including recruitment of National Management Consultants and Oversight
Consultants and production of reports on the progress of the Project, in each
case, with a mandate, composition and terms of reference as set out in the
Project Operational Manual and acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower;
(c) 
ensure that each of the PMU and the Central PIU (Satker) are provided at all
times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified
personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish the
objectives of the Project; and
(d) 
ensure coordination, as necessary, with the Pokja Pengendali PNPM.
2. 
The Borrower, through MPW, shall:
(a) 
at the level of each Province, cause to be established, prior to the
commencement of Project activities in each such Province and thereafter
maintain until completion of the Project a Provincial PIU (Satker), responsible
for day-to-day implementation of the Project, including recruiting the
Facilitators and City Coordinators and managing community training, in both
cases with a mandate, composition and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) 
by no later than November 30 in each calendar year of Project implementation,
commencing on November 30, 2012, identify each Participating Kecamatan,
Participating Kota, Participating Kabupaten and Participating Kelurahan, in
each case in accordance with the Project Operational Manual;
8 of 34
(c) 
at the level of each Participating Kota and Participating Kabupaten, cause to be
established, prior to the commencement of Project activities in such
Participating Kota and Participating Kabupaten and therafter maintain until
completion of the ?roject, a Kota/Kabupaten PIU (Satker), responsible for: (i)
day-to-day implen entation of the Project, including channeling of Kelurahan
Grants, with a madate, composition and terms of reference as set out in the
Project Operatior al Manual; 
and (ii) ensuring coordination with the
Kabupaten/Kota Poverty Alleviation Coordination Team;
(d) 
at the .evcl of the Part cipating Kecamatan, maintain until completion of the
Project, a PJOK as a Sub-project implementation unit, with a mandate,
composition and :erm 
of reference as set out in the Project Operational
Manual, to be resp>nsitle for implementation of the Project and administration
of proposals from 13KMs and Sub-project Agreements;
(e) 
at the level of each Participating Kelurahan, establish prior to the
commencement of any Sub-project in that Participating Kelurahan, and
thereafter maintain unti[ completion of the Project, a BKM, legally established,
whose mandate, cormpc sition and terms of reference shall include a financial
management unit or specialist as set out in the Project Operational Manual, to
be responsible for trplementation of the Project at the Kelurahan-level; and
(f) 
ensure that each P. -ovincial PIU (Satker), Kota/Kabupaten PIU (Satker), PJOK
and BKM shall be provided with adequate funds and other resources, and
supported by qualified technical, financial and administrative personnel in
adequate numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1 
The Borrower, through lMPW, shall:
(a) 
adopt and, therea ler ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance
with, a Project Dperitional Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which shall
include the description of: (i) implementation arrangements; 
(ii) the
procur-ment proc<dures set forth in Section III of this Schedule 2 and standard
procur.ment 
doumentation; 
(iii) 
reporting 
requirements, 
financial
management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in Section II of this
Schedule 2; (iv) criteria for Eligible Expenditures, including without limitation,
under Sub-projects; 
(v) the Project performance 
indicators; 
(vi) the
Environmental Guidelines and the environmental criteria applicable to Sub-
project design in.-luding environmental impact mitigation, the Indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework, and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framewor:, including the technical guidelines for implementation of
such frameworks; (vii) the Better Governance Action Plan; (viii) maintenance
provis:.ons for woiks to be carried out under a Sub-projects; (ix) the criteria for
the selection of St b-projects, as well as the terms and conditions governing the
.9 of 34
Kelurahan 
Grants 
and 
Local 
Govermnent 
Participation 
meeting 
the
requirements set out in Annex I to this Schedule; (x) with respect to Sub-
projects with activities supported by Revolving Loan Funds, criteria for
operation of Revolving Loan Funds, criteria for operation of Revolving Loan
Funds, including requirements for formation of community groups to receive
such funds and types of income generating activities to be undertaken using
such funds; and (xi) the Operational Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation
of PNPM;
(b) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Project
Operational Manual without the prior written agreement of the Borrower and
the Bank;
(c) 
ensure that the Project Operational Manual is made available, at all times until
completion of the Project, to Oversight Consultants, City Coordinators and
Facilitators and Participating Kelurahans, and applied in the carrying out of
Sub-projects; and
(d) 
with the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank, update the
Project Operational Manual, as necessary, at all times ensuring compliance
thereof with the terms of this Agreement.
(e) 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of (A) the Project
Operational Manual; and (B) those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
2. 
For the purposes of providing Kelurahan Grants under the Project, the Borrower shall
only submit applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Category (1) in the Table in Section IV.A of this Schedule to finance Sub-projects
prepared and selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in Annex I to this
Schedule and the Project Operational Manual.
3. 
In carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that prior to
participating in the Project, a Participating Local Government has:
(a) 
agreed in writing to carry out activities under the Project in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank and included in the Project Operational
Manual;
(b) 
taken all steps required to make available the Local Government Participation;
and
(c) 
published a list of Project Kelurahans in accordance with the criteria set out in
the Project Operational Manual.
4. 
In carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that, prior to
participating in the Project, a Participating Kelurahan has:
10 of 34
(a) 
agreed in writing to carry out activities under the Project in accordance with
procedures acceptUble to the Bank and the Borrower and included in Project
Operational Manuel;
(b) 
established, through the BKM, a Project office for purposes of Project
coordiration and d sburement of Kelurahan Grants;
(c) 
adopted, through the 3KM, a Community Development Plan, or revised,
through the BKM, a previous Community Development Plan meeting the
requirements set out in the Project Operational Manual and identifying each
Sub-project; and
(d) 
through the relevant BKM, entered into a Sub-project Agreement with the
PJOK :or each Sub-project in its Community Development Plan on the terms
and conditions set 'orth in Annex 1 to this Schedule 2.
5. 
The Borrowe- shall ensure t'at, for purposes of Part 2(a) (ii) of the Project, a
Participating Kelurahan s iall only finance Revolving Loan Fund Sub-projects if the
BKM proposed to receive additional funds to a Revolving Loan Fund meets the
criteria for establishment and operation of a Revolving Loan Fund set out in the
Project Operational Manual, including, with respect to BKMs that have previously
managed revolving funds, thal they have a repayment rate meeting the requirements
set out in the Project Opei atior.al Manual.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensur - tha:, prior to undertaking any activities under Part 4 of the
Project: (a) the Bank and the Borrower have agreed in writing that a disaster,
emergency and/or catas:rophic event requiring support for such activities has
occurred; and (b) the Bank and the Borrower have entered into a written arrangement
and/or the Borrower has adopted a supplement to the Project Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the Banl: which defines the scope of such activities, and their
implementation and disbursement arrangements.
7 
The Borrower shall ensu-e, al all times, that public information, for the purpose of
disclosing to inhabitants of 2articipating Kelurahans all administrative, financial,
environmental, social, procedural and technical aspects pertaining to the selection,
design, preparation and implementation of Sub-projects, including the Project
Operational Manual, is Lvailable free of charge at the government offices of the
respective Participating E elurEhan and Participating Local Government.
8. 
The Borrower, through the PMU (Satker), shall, by the date which is no later than
three (3) months after the Effective Date, issue instructions acceptable to the PMU
(Satker) and the Bank, to Local Governments of Participating Kabupaten and
Participating Kota, and to Provincial governments and to relevant stakeholders
defining time periods wilhin which categories of complaints/cases must be resolved,
to whom they should be escalated if not resolved within such time periods and what
the consequeaces will bc if such cases are not resolved or escalated in accordance
with such instructions.
11 of34
9. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree in writing: (a) BPKP shall carry out a continuous audit of the Project in
partnership with the Inspectorate General of MPW and Participating Local
Government inspectorates; and (b) on terms of reference agreed among PMU
(Satker), BPKP and the Bank, BPKP shall, after PMU (Satker) has compiled each
interim financial report, review such interim financial report for each calendar quarter
during Project implementation and shall provide to the Bank its report of each such
review not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter.
10. 
With respect to PNPM urban sub-projects for which Facilitators are financed by the
Project but the PNPM urban sub-projects are themselves financed from sources other
than the Loan and/or PNPM urban sub-projects for which facilitators are financed
from such other sources but Sub-projects are themselves financed by the Project, the
PMU (Satker) shall:
(a) 
undertake such sub-projects in accordance with the Project Operational
Manual;
(b) 
retain responsibility for the design, construction, fiduciary controls and
implementation of such sub-projects; and
(c) 
ensure that sufficient funds are provided from such other financing sources as
are necessary to ensure completion of such sub-projects in accordance with the
Project Operational Manual.
11. 
The Borrower shall ensure that expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
including Sub-projects, shall not have been financed by sources other than the Loan,
including from the budget of the Borrower or from grant funding development
partners.
C. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
1 .
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the proceeds of Kelurahan Grants shall not be used to finance the
acquisition of land;
(b) 
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of
villagers, and to avoid the displacement of such villagers; and
(c) 
apply, and shall ensure that each Participating Kelurahan shall apply, the Land
Acquisition 
and 
Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework 
to 
Sub-project
implementation, including:
12 of 34
(i) 
taking all appropriate measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of
land or assets of people,and to avoid the displacement of such people;
(ii) 
where the a;quisition of land or assets or the displacement of people is
unavoidablI under a proposed Sub-project, ensuring that all Displaced
Persons thereunder shall have been compensated and provided with
resettlemeni and rehabilitation measures prior to the implementation of
such Sub-p -ojec: and in accordance with the provisions of the Land
Acquisition and 3.esettlement Policy Framework; and
(iii) 
in the case (of the physical displacement of persons as a result of a Sub-
project:
'A) 
whe e the affected people are not physically displaced and less
than ten (10) percent of their productive assets are lost or where
fewer than two-hundred (200) people are involved: preparing an
abbreviated Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan in
accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy
Framework and furnishing such plan to the Bank for written no-
obje,tion prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project;
'B) 
where the affected people are not physically displaced and ten
(10) percnt or more of their productive assets are lost or where
two -hundred (200) people or more are involved: preparing a full
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan in accordance
with the land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
and furnishing such plan to the Bank for written no-objection
prioi to the carrying out of the Sub-project;
'C) 
prioi to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensuring that all
Displaced Persons shall have been compensated and provided
with applicable resettlement and rehabilitation benefits in
accordance with the provisions of such plan; and
(d) 
in the case of voluntary land donation, ensure that the planning and verification
procedures for land donation (voluntary donation without compensation and
voluntary transfer with compensation) set out in the Project Operational
Manual shall have been followed and documented in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank and the PMU prior to the commencement of the Sub-Project.
2. 
Where Indigerous People. are present in, or have a collective attachment to, the area
of the Participating Keluiahan, the Borrower shall apply, and shall ensure that the
Participating Kelurahan shall apply, the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework to
Sub-project implementation, including:
13 of 34
(a) 
avoiding, and, if not possible, minimizing cultural, social and economic
adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples caused or likely to be caused by the
Project;
(b) 
through a process of free, prior, and informed consultation and participation,
involving concerned Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of
Sub-projects so as to ensure that there is broad community support for Sub-
Projects and that the benefits received by the Indigenous Peoples under the
Project are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences and
protect their customary user rights; and
(c) 
preparing an Indigenous Peoples Plan for the Participating Kelurahan based on
the foregoing consultations and furnish such Indigenous Peoples Plan to the
Bank for written no-objection prior to carrying out the Sub-projects in such
Participating Kelurahan; 
and thereafter implement the Sub-project 
in
accordance with such plan.
3. 
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall apply and shall ensure that each
Participating Kelurahan shall apply the Environmental Guidelines and, where
applicable: (a) prepare and ensure that each Participating Kelurahan shall prepare an
Environmental Management Plan for each Sub-project fully consistent with this
Agreement and the Environmental Giidelines; (b) furnish such Environmental
Management Plan to the Bank for written no-objection prior to carrying out the Sub-
project; and (c) thereafter implement the Sub-project in accordance with such plan.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the
Project Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1)
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of the period covered by such report.
14 of 34
2. 
The Borrower shall prepa.e, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank, by September 30 in each year of Project implementation an
annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to parigrapl 1 of this Section II.A, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project duri-ig the twelve (12) month period preceding the date of
said report (it being under tood that the first such annual report may cover a period of
less than twelve (12) montis) and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of he Project and the achievement of the objective thereof
during the period following such date.
B. 
Financial Management, Iinancial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not
later than forty.-five (45) days a:.er the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each such audit of the
Financial Statements shall zover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statemeits fcr each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than six (6) months alter the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the I roject and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured in acc(rdance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procuremeat Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
Yd1 consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proce ds cf the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or r.-ferred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines
and with the provisions of his Section.
15 of 34
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and 111 of the Procurement
Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may
be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified
in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following
additional provisions set out in Annex 2 to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct
Contracting; and (d) Community Participation procedures which have been found
acceptable to the World Bank as set out in the Project Operational Manual.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement
Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost
Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source
Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set forth in paragraph 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
16 of 34
Seztion IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1 
The Borrower may withlraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II o the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall s.ecify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceuds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts
of the Loan to each Catel;ory, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for
Eligible Experditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) (a) Kelurahan Grants 
100,000,000 
100% of Kelurahan Grant
under Part 2(a) of the 
amount disbursed
Project
(b) Kelurahan Grants 
49,000,000 
100% of Kelurahan Grant
under Part 2(b) of the 
amount disbursed
Project
(2) Goods, consultant:' 
117,000,000 
100%
services, non-consulting
services, training and
workshops* and
incremental opera:mg
costs* under Parts l and 31
of the Project
(3) Kelurahan Grants, goods, 
0 
100%
consultants' services,
non-consulting services,
training and workshops*
and incremental operating
costs* under Part 4 of the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
266,000,000
17 of 34
* 
For the purposes of this Table: (i) "training and workshops" means Project-
related training and workshops conducted in the territory of the Borrower, including
purchase and publication of materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and travel and
subsistence of trainees; and (ii) "incremental operating costs" means reasonable costs
arising under the Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries; travel
and other travel-related expenditures; equipment rental and maintenance; vehicle
operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and maintenance; materials and
supplies; bank charges; advertising expenses; and utilities and communications
expenses, but excluding salaries and honoraria of officials and staff of the Borrower.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 53,200,000 equivalent may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 31, 2012 but
in no case made more than twelve (12) months prior to the date of this
Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) and Category (2); or
(c) 
under Category (3) until: the Borrower has declared a disaster, emergency or
catastrophic 
event through the relevant national, Province- or Local
Government-level or other authority, and the Bank and the Borrower have
agreed in writing to address such disaster, emergency or catastrophic event
under Part 4 of the Project and in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
18 of 34
A VNEX I to SCHEDULE 2
Selection Criteria for Sub-projects and Kelurahan Grants
A. 
Selection Criteria for Sul-projects
1. 
Each Sub-Project shall be ;elec:ed from the Community Development Plan developed
by the BKM of the Participating Kelurahan and meet the requirements set out in the
Project Operational Manual.
2. 
No Sub-project shall: (a) iiclude expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose; (b) include civil vorks for government administration or religious purposes;
(c) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally harmful products (including
pesticides, ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products, materials
containing asbestos, arms and drugs); (d) relate to activities producing liquid or
gaseous effluents or emi3sions at harmful levels; (e) relate to activities using,
producing, storing or traisporting hazardous materials and wastes; (f) relate to
logging; (g) relate to activ ties m protected areas; (h) relate to fisheries activities that
are not in accoidance with standards set by the Borrower's Fishery Service Agency; (i)
include the finzncing of govermnent salaries; (j) relate to mining or excavation of live
coral or coral reef; (k) inc .ude the provision of goods, works or services, directly or
through intermediaries, by 3uppliers or contractors, as the case may be, who have been
declared ineligible to part:cipate in the procurement of any Bank-financed contract,
whether indefir.itely or for a staled period of time, as a result of a decision of the Bank,
and in accordance with the term; of the decision; or (1) finance land acquisition.
3. 
No project shall qualify as a Sub-project eligible for financing out of the proceeds of a
Kelurahan Grant until a Sub-project Agreement: (a) has been entered into between the
relevant Participating Kelurahan, through the relevant PJOK, and BKM, in each case
on terms and conditions act forth in Section B of this Annex; and (b) has been
reviewed and approved by :he relevant Oversight Consultants.
4. 
Additional criteria for Sub-projects under Part 2 of the Project.
(a) 
Each Sub-project propo:;ed under Part 2(a)(i) of the Project shall be a public
infrastructure or eluipment investment project or a social service project
(which may include emergency preparedness or risk reduction to reduce
vulnerability to natural disasters) which is technically, financially and
environmentally vi,ble, and economically justified by the number of people
benefiting from it.
(b) 
Each Sab-project propcsed under Part 2(a)(i) of the Project that is in the
education sector -hall be compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota
education master pl n, if such plan exists.
19 of 34
(c) 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part 2(a)(i) of the Project that is in the health
sector shall be compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota health master
plan, if such plan exists.
(d) 
Additional criteria for Sub-projects under Part 2(a)(ii) of the Project. For each
Sub-project in which income generating activities will be supported by a
Revolving Loan Fund, such Sub-project shall: (i) only be undertaken by a
BKM meeting the requirements set out in the Project Operational Manual,
including a sufficient repayment history with respect to any other revolving
funds managed by such BKM; (ii) require that the activities supported by such
Revolving Loan Fund be income generating and meet the criteria set out in the
Project Operations Manual; and (iii) require that the community groups to
receive support from such Revolving Loan Fund be duly constituted in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual.
(e) 
Additional criteria for Sub-projects under Part 2(a)(iii) of the Project. 
Each
Sub-project proposed under Part 2(a)(iii) of the Project as a social assistance
project shall be designed to meet the poverty alleviation needs of Highly
Vulnerable Groups meeting the criteria set out in the Project Operational
Manual.
(f) 
Additional criteria for Sub-Projects under Part 2(b) of the Project. Each Sub-
project proposed under Part 2(b) of the Project shall be in Participating
Kelurahan that meet the requirements set out in the Project Operational
Manual, including that such Participating Kelurahan: (i) has high population
density; (ii) has high poverty incidence; (iii) is prone to natural disasters;
and/or (iv) is in need of complex interventions.
5. 
Additional criteria for Sub-projects (if any) under Part 4 of the Project.
(a) 
The Borrower has declared a disaster, emergency or catastrophic event through
the relevant national, Province- or Local Government- level or other authority
and the Bank and the Borrower have agreed in writing that such an event
eligible for support for such activities under the Project has occurred; and
(b) 
the Bank and the Borrower have entered into a written arrangement and/or the
Borrower has adopted a supplement to the Project Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank which defines the scope of such activities, and their
implementation and disbursement arrangements.
20 of 34
B. 
Sub-project Review and 3election
The Borrower shall ensure that each Sub-project is the subject of a corresponding
proposal for a Kelurahan Grant that has been prepared, submitted and reviewed in
accordance with the guidelines, procedures and selection criteria set forth in the
Project Operational Manual and this Annex.
C. 
Terms and Cenditions of Sub.project Agreements
Each Sub-project Agreemcnt shall be on terms and conditions set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, which sha I include:
(a) 
the req'iirement th it the Participating Kelurahan carry out its Sub-project in
accordance with tho Project Operational Manual;
(b) 
the requirement th it the Participating Kelurahan carry out its Sub-Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Better Governance Action Plan, the
Anti-Corruption G iidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other
than the Borrower the Environmental Guidelines, the Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Polic:( Framework, the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework,
and any Environm;ntal Management Plan, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Action Plan or Indigeno as Peoples Plan;
(c) 
the distursement schedule for the Kelurahan Grant;
(d) 
the reqiirement thit each Participating Kelurahan procure the goods, works
and services to te financed out of the Sub-project in accordance with
provisions that ar, fully consistent with the provisions of Section III of
Schedule 2 to this ) Lgrecment;
(e) 
the reqairement that each Participating Kelurahan monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Sub-project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual;
(f) 
the requirement 1hat each Participating Kelurahan maintain a financial
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently appliel accounting standards acceptable to the Bank; and at the
Bank's or the Bor-ower's request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish tfe statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;
(g) 
the requirement thit each Participating Kelurahan enable the Borrower and the
Bank to inspect tfe Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Bonower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing; and
21 of 34
(h) 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including
the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Kelurahan to
use the proceeds of the Kelurahan Grant; or (ii) obtain a refund of the
Kelurahan Grant upon the failure of the Participating Kelurahan. as applicable,
to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-project Agreement.
22 of34
ANNEX 2 to SCHEDULE 2
National Compet tive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services
under contracts awarded on the basis :f National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the
Pelelangan Umum 
(Public 
Tendering) 
and 
Pemilihan Langsung / 
Pelelangan
Sederhana (Simplifie& Tendering) methods as set forth in the Borrower's Presidential
Re-ulation No. 54/2010, with tho modifications set out below in order to ensure economy,
efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. 
The Pemilihan
Leagsung /Pelelangan Sederhanc method shall apply to such procurement up to the financial
thrsholds specified in said Regulation. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's
pro cedures and these rriodification s, the latter shall govern.
I. 
Procuring entities shall us, the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to
the Borrower and the Banl.. The provisions of Section 1.14 (Fraud and Corruption) of
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract
financed out of the procceds of the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining
to fraud and corruption a, defined in paragraph 1.14(a) of said Guidelines and the
contract provisions set out in paragraph 1.14(e) of said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is
required, a foreign firm deternrned to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall
be given reasonable time for registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to
form a joint venture or :;ub-contract part of the supply of goods, non-consulting
services, and works as a condition for submitting bids or the award of the contract.
Bidding documents shall te made available, by mail or in person, to all international
bidders who ar. willing to pay the required fee.
3. 
No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. 
Under the Pelelangan Unun method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one
(21) days from the date o:'the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding
documents, whichever is liter, to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10)
days under the Pemilihan Lang.ung / Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5. 
Bids invited under the Felelangan Unum method shall be submitted in one (1)
envelope and evaluated using post-qualification.
6. 
No bidder shall be rejectcd m-rely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's
estimate and budget ceiling; without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7. 
Bid security, at the biddcr's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or
guarantee from a reputable bgnk or other reputable financial institution and shall
without exception follow tie form provided for this purpose in the bidding documents.
23 of 34
8. 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
9. 
Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate in bidding
only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate
under commercial law, and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-
borrower.
24 of 34
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets fort. the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installmeat Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first 3rincipal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the
Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment
Date; by (b) the Installme-it Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4
of this Schedule, to which L Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
Aril 15, 2022 
2.17
October 15, 2022 
2.22
April 15, 2023 
2.28
October 15, 2023 
2.34
April 15, 2024 
2.40
October 15,2024 
2.46
April 15, 2025 
2.52
October 15, 2025 
2.58
April 15, 2026 
2.64
October 15, 2026 
2.71
April 15, 2027 
2.78
October 15, 2027 
2.85
April 15, 2028 
2.92
October 15, 2028 
2.99
April 15, 2029 
3.07
October 15, 2029 
3.14
April 15, 2030 
3.22
October 15, 2030 
3.30
April 15, 2031 
3.38
October 15, 2031 
3.47
April 15, 2032 
3.56
October 15, 2032 
3.65
April 15, 2033 
3.74
October 15, 2033 
3.83
April 15, 2034 
3.93
October 15, 2034 
4.02
April 15, 2035 
4.12
October 15, 2035 
4.23
April 15, 2036 
_ 
4.33
25 of 34
October 15, 2036 
4.44
April 15, 2037 
4.71
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan
Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid
on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such
withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment
Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal
Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") and the denominator of which is
the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment
Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that
reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate
component of the Screen Rate.
26 of 34
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Be lance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedul, shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such
amount.
27 of 34
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Better Governance Action Plan" means a stand-alone chapter of the Project
Operational Manual designed to integrate the contents of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines and to give effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions,
measures and policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its
forms under the Project, including enhanced information disclosure provisions, civil
society oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with the risks associated with
collusion, forgery and fraud, a complaint handling mechanism,--and an appropriate
regime of sanctions and remedies, and included as applicable in each Sub-project
Agreement.
3. 
"BKM" means Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat, a Kelurahan level Board of
Community Trustees with elected members, legally empowered by registering as an
association to act on behalf of the Kelurahan community to take actions aimed at
reducing poverty in the Participating Kelurahan, and "BKMs" means more than one
BKM.
4. 
"BPKP" means Badan Pengawas Keuangan dan Pembangunan, the Borrower's
Financial and Development Supervisory Agency, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Board of Community Trustees" means a BKM, and "Boards of Community Trustees"
means BKMs.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Central PIU (Satker)" means the central-level Project implementation unit (Satuan
Kerja, or Satker) established and operating in accordance with paragraph 1(b) and
paragraph 1(c) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"City Coordinator" means the consultant and its teams assigned to each Participating
Kota and/or Participating Kabupaten to manage implementation of the Project,
including coordination of Facilitators, and "City Coordinators" means more than one
City Coordinator.
28 of 34
9. 
"Community Development Plan" means each multi-year development plan for a
Participating Kelurahan piepared by a BKM in accordance the procedures and criteria
set out in the Project Operational Manual, and "Community Development Plans"
means more than one Corr munity Development Plan.
10. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants uider IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" da:ed January 2011.
11. 
"Coordinating Ministry for Social Welfare" means Kementerian Koordinator Bidang
Kesejahteraan Rakyat, the Borrower's Coordinating Ministry for Social Welfare, or
any successor Ihereto.
12. 
"Displaced Peison" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project,
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:
(a) the involun:ary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss
of assets or access to asscts; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood,
whether or no: such person nmust move to another location; or (b) the involuntary
restriction of access to 1egally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in
adverse impacts on the li-(elihood of such person, and "Displaced Persons" means,
collectively, all such Displ iced Persons.
13. 
"Eligible Expenditures" mans :he expenditures for goods, works and services referred
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
14. 
"Environmental Guideline ?" means the guidelines adopted by the Borrower through
MPW on February 9, 2C12 (Letter No. 13/PMU-P2KP/II/2012), setting forth the
measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project to
eliminate, mitigate or offsct adverse environmental impacts or to reduce such impacts
to acceptable levels and onsure management and conservation of physical cultural
resources in the design and implementation of Sub-projects, as such guidelines may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
15. 
"Environmental Managem,ent Plan" or "EMP" means an Environmental Management
Plan, acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the Environmental Guidelines,
adopted for the purposes of a Sub-project, and giving details of the agreed actions and
policies designed to maxiniize i:he benefits of the Sub-project, eliminate or offset any
adverse environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, along
with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions and
policies.
16. 
"Facilitator" means a tectnical, economic or social consultant assigned to work with
Participating Kelurahans to develop and implement a Community Development Plan
and Sub-projec:s, and "Fac litators" means more than one Facilitator.
29 of 34
17. 
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing January I and
ending December 31.
18. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
19. 
"Highly Vulnerable Groups" means groups of peoples, including widows, the elderly,
the disabled and the victims of natural disaster, having special poverty alleviation
needs and to be addressed in the Community Development Plan.
20. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct social
and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the
development process induced by the Project or any part thereof
21. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means the framework, acceptable to the
Bank, adopted by the Borrower through MPW on February 9, 2012 (Letter No.
13/PMU-P2KP/II/2012) setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during the
implementation of the Project for: (a) the process of free, prior and informed
consultation leading to broad community support of Indigenous Peoples, in the design
and implementation of each Sub-project to be, or being, carried out in a location in
which such people reside or use for their livelihood; and (b) designing and
implementing measures to provide benefits which are socially and culturally
acceptable to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse impacts of Sub-projects, as
such Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank and the Borrower.
22. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" means each plan for a Sub-project, meeting the
requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, that sets out the agreed
measures to (a) involve Indigenous Peoples, through a process of free, prior and
informed consultation, in the design and implementation of each Sub-project in
locations in which such people reside or make their living; (b) ensure that Indigenous
Peoples affected by the Sub-project receive culturally appropriate social and economic
benefits; and (c) when potential adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples are identified,
those adverse effects are avoided, minimized, mitigated, or compensated for, in each
case in a manner acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
23. 
"Inspectorate General of MPW" means an inspectorate general of the MPW, or any
successor thereof
24. 
"Kabupaten" means a district, an administrative division of the Borrower.
25. 
"Kabupaten/Kota 
Poverty Alleviation 
Coordination 
Team" means the local
government-level working group established under Perpres 
15/2010 in each
Participating Kabupaten, Participating Kecamatan or Participating Kota, or any
successor thereto.
30 of 34
26. 
"Kecamatan" means a sub district, an administrative sub-district of a Kabupaten.
27. 
"Kelurahan" irean an urban section of a Kecamatan.
28. 
"Kelurahan Grant" means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan to a Participat ng Kelurahan for a Sub-project under Part 2 or Part 4 of the
Project, and "Kelurahan G ants" means more than one Kelurahan Grant.
29. 
"Kota" means a municip.dity, an administrative division within a province of the
Borrower.
3C. 
"Kota/Kabupaten PIU (S itker)" means each Project implementation unit (Satuan
KeJa, or Satker) establi.-.hed and operated by each Participating Kota and each
Participating Kabupaten in accordance with paragraph 2(c) and paragraph 2(f) of
Section L.A of Schedule 2 o this Agreement.
31. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement and
rehabilitation action plan :or a Sub-project giving details of the agreed provisions for
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons under the
Sub-project, along with thc procedural and institutional measures needed to implement
such agreed provisions, 
icceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, prepared and
implemented by a BKM, pursuant to the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy
Framework.
32. 
"Land Acquisit:ion and Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Land Acquisition
and Resettlement Policy Framework adopted by the Borrower through MPW on
February 9, 2012 (Letter No. 13/PMU-P2KP/II/2012) setting forth the measures and
actions to be taken during tho implementation of the Project for the provision of
compensation, rehabilitaticn and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, as such
framework may be amend-d from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank and the iorrower.
33. 
"Local Government" meais th,e government of a Kabupaten, Kecamatan or Kota, as
the context requires, and "Local Governments" means more than one Local
Government.
34. 
"Local Goverranent PartiCipation" means Local Government funding contributed to
the total Sub-project cost for participating in the Project, to be made available by a
Participating Local Gove-nment to a Participating Kelurahan for a Sub-project in
accordance with the formula set forth in the Project Operational Manual
35. 
"Ministry of Finance" mtans the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor
thereto.
36. 
"Ministry of Home Affaiis" and "MOHA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Home
Affairs, or any successor t iereto.
31 of 34
37. 
"Ministry of Public Works" and "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto.
38. 
"National Development Planning Agency" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan
Nasional, the Borrower's National Development Planning Agency, and any successor
thereto.
39. 
"National Management Consultants" means the team of consultants within the Project
Management Unit at the central level engaged to assist in Project implementation and
monitoring.
40. 
"Operational Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation of PNPM" means the
guidelines, included in the Project Operational Manual, outlining the common
objectives, mechanisms and responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation of the
Project.
41. 
"Oversight Consultants" means the team of consultants and facilitators at the
provincial and district level engaged to assist Participating Kelurahans with Project
implementation and monitoring.
42. 
"Part" means a part of the Project described in Schedule I to this Agreement.
43. 
"Participating Kabupaten" means a Kabupaten which is responsible for a Local
Government Participation for a Sub-project in accordance with the Project Operational
Manual, and 
"Participating Kabupatens" means more than one Participating
Kabupaten.
44. 
"Participating Kecamatan" means a Kecamatan in which one or more Participating
Kelurahans are located and which establishes a PJOK for the Project in accordance
with the Project Operational Manual, and "Participating Kecamantans" means more
than one Participating Kecamatan.
45. 
"Participating Kelurahan" means a Kelurahan participating in the Project meeting the
eligibility requirements set out in the Project Operational Manual.
46. 
"Participating Kota" means a Kota which is responsible for a Local Government
Participation for a Sub-project, and "Participating Kotas" means more than one
Participating Kota.
47. 
"Participating Local Government" means the government of a Participating Kota or a
Participating Kabupaten designated by the Borrower as one in which a Participating
Kelurahan shall carry out a Sub-project in accordance with the Project Operational
Manual, and "Participating Local Governments" means more than one Participating
Local Government.
32 of 34
48. 
"Perpres" means a Peratur an P-esiden, a presidential regulation.
49. 
"PJOK" means the Project opcrations officer at the Kecamatan level responsible for
each Sub-project in the rclevant Participating Kelurahans, established in accordance
with paragraph 2(d) of S:ctiori I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "PJOKs"
means more than one PJOK.
50. 
"PNPM" means Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Mandiri, the
Borrower's National Prog:-am fbr Community Empowerment, as described in Perpres
13/2009, as the same may )e amended or updated from time to time.
51. 
"Procurement 3uidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated Jaiuary 2011.
52. 
"Pokja Pengendali PNPM" means the national-level oversight body of PNPM, chaired
by the Coordinating Ministry for Social Welfare, with representatives of relevant
ministries, including Nat onal Development Planning Agency, Ministry of Home
Affairs, Ministry of Finaince, Ministry of Public Works, and State Ministry for
Development of Disadvan:aged Regions, or any successor thereto.
53. 
"Procurement Plan" meaus the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
July 26, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time
to time in accordance witt the provisions of said paragraphs.
54 
"Project Management Uit" or "PMU (Satker)" means the central-level Project
Management Unit (Satke) esablished and operating in accordance with paragraph
1(b) of Section I.A of Schxlule 2 to this Agreement.
55. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the Project Operational Manual or Pedoman
Pelaksanaan PNPM Ma idiri Perkotaan, acceptable to the World Bank and the
Borrower dated May 31, 2012 referred to in paragraph I of Section I.B of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as such Project Operational Manual may be amended or
supplemented from time tD timy.e with the prior written agreement of the Borrower and
the Bank.
5,5. 
"Province" means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower's territory at the first
level below the national lcvel.
5j. 
Provincial PlU (Satker" means each Province-level Project implementation unit
(Satuan Kerjo, or Satker) established and operated by each Province in accordance
with paragraph 2(a) anI paragraph 2(f) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and "Provin-,ial PITJs (Satkers)" means more than one Provincial PIU
(Satker).
33 of 34
58. 
"Revolving Loan Fund" means.a fund established and managed by a BKM, or through
other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower and set out in the
Project Operational Manual, to support Sub-project income generating activities under
Part 2 (a)(ii) of the Project undertaken by community groups constituted in accordance
with the Project Operational Manual, and "Revolving Loan Funds" means more than
one Revolving Loan Fund.
59. 
"Rupiah" and "Rp" means the currency of the Borrower.
60. 
"State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions" means the Borrower's
State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions, or any successor thereto.
61. 
"Sub-project" means an activity identified in a Community Development Plan: (a)
under Part 2 of the Project as identified in a Community Development Plan; or (b)
under Part 4 of the Project as agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank, in
each case selected pursuant to criteria and procedures set forth in the Project
Operational Manual and utilizing the proceeds of a Kelurahan Grant, and "Sub-
projects" means more than one Sub-project.
62. 
"Sub-project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the relevant
Participating Kelurahan, through the BKM, and the relevant PJOK for purposes of
implementing a Sub-project on the terms and conditions set forth in Annex 1 to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and included in the Project Operational Manual, and
"Sub-project Agreements" means more than one Sub-project Agreement.
34 of 34
