OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8163-CN
Loan Agreement
(Yunnan Technical and Vocational Education and Training Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A 
sx 
( 
, 2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
r 
-
, 2012, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the menings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may wilhdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Ccnversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawi Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty(30) days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdravn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid aut of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Bonower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from tim, to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan) to carry
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is. carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, Peoples Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
A uthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and relevance of technical
and vocational education and training to produce skills that respond to the labor market
demand, contributing to Yunnan's economic development during the Borrower's 12th
Five Year Plan period.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improving the Quality and Relevance of TVET Programs in Project
Schools
1 .
Strengthening and institutionalizing school-industry collaboration through the
provision of training, technical assistance and incremental operating costs to:
(a) establish formal school-industry collaboration committees and sector specific
industrial advisory committees; and (b) develop competency-based standards to
revise selected training programs.
2. 
Developing school-based CBT curriculum and teaching-learning materials,
including: (a) the preparation of core curriculum standards; (b) development of
modular curricula and other teaching-learning materials through a cycle of
piloting, evaluating, and revising; (c) publication of school-based new curriculum
materials; and (d) establislment of a school level teaching and learning resource
bank.
3. 
Improving management and instructional capacity of school managers through,
inter alia: (a) with respect to top and middle level managers, the provision of
domestic and overseas trai-ing aimed at: (i) raising awareness of the importance
and specific instruments -:o strengthen linkages with industry; (ii) improving
technical understanding of the process of developing competency-based training
curriculum; and (iii) evidence-based policy making and overall management
capacity; and (b) with resp.ct to teachers, the provision of domestic and overseas
training in the area of: (i) development and use of competency-based curriculum;
(ii) development and use of new student-centered pedagogy; and (iii) skills
development in relevant industries towards achieving higher levels of self-
certification of skills.
4. 
Improving the quality of student assessment system by establishing a
competency-based benchmark for measuring student and school performance
through the provision of training, technical assistance and incremental operating
costs for: (a) the development and implementation of new student assessment
instruments including a graduate tracer study and employer satisfaction survey;
-6-
and (b) the development and implementation of a new teacher and teaching
assessment instrument.
5. 
Improving instructional ficilities through: (a) the expansion, upgrading and
construction of training centers within the campus of selected Project Schools;
(b) the provision of key training equipment needed for the revised training
programs; and (c) development of guidelines for the management of training
facilities and equipment.
6. 
Provision of incremental operating costs and logistical assistance to enhance
Project impact to facilitale the participation of interested TVET institutions in
selected Project training activities, at their own expenses, and to provide them
with access to CBT and curriculum materials developed under the Project.
Part B: Strengthening Provincial Capacity in Coordination, Policy Development,
and Monitoring and Evaluation
1 .
Strengthening the Provincial coordination of TVET activities and programs,
through supporting the InLer-Departmental TVET Coordination Committee in:
(a) carrying out study visits to provinces that have similar coordination
mechanism; (b) carrying cut regular meetings to discuss TVET affairs; and (c)
carrying out field visits to Project Schools.
2. 
Supporting the school level development of CBT programs, through: (a) the
formation of a Provincial Expert Team to guide the curriculum development in
schools; (b) organization of teacher training in student-centered pedagogy; (c)
carrying out of teacher trainings in the development and implementation of CBT
curriculum; and (d) carrying out of teacher training related to the development of
curriculum clusters.
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and incremental operating costs, inter
alia, to: (a) carry out policy research and produce policy briefs related to various
TVET topics; and (b) organize provincial TVET workshops for the purpose of
school-industry collaboration and preparation of curriculum development case
studies and lessons learned.
4. 
Facilitating Project management, through, inter alia: (a) the provision of specific
training to provincial and school level Project staff on subjects related to Project
management, 
financial 
management, 
procurement, 
and monitoring 
and
evaluation; and (b) suppor:, through the PMO, to all provincial and school level
procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation activities.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan)
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the categories as set forth
in the table in Section IV of this Schedule under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amo-nt shall be made available in Dollars (determined on
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and the amount
of any Premium paid pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement, shall
be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace
period of eight (8) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan) to:
(a) manage, operate, mon tor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with
arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take, all required
actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals as may be
necessary, 
to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds 
and the
implementation of the Project, to enable the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity (Yunnan) to comply with their respective undertakings
under this Agreement and the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant
records and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly
such documents and recorcs, including all other information, as may be requested
by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Yunnan) to ensure
that, prior to making any disbursement to any specific Project School, it shall
have entered into a Subsiliary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with
such Project School.
-8-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
I. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-C rruption Guidelines, including those applicable to
Recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing
Entity (Yunnan) to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accorda-ice with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex of the
Schedule to the Project Ag-eement. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one Fiscal Year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after
the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the preceding calendar semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.0)(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
1. 
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants' services required for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
-9-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works 
30,282,500 
75%
(2) Goods, Consultants' 
19,592,500 
100%
services, Training
and Study Tours,
and Incremental
Operating Costs for
the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
- 10 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; 'Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after October 1,
2011, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 September 2020 
2.28
15 March 2021 
2.31
15 September 2021 
2.35
15 March 2022 
2.38
15 September 2022 
2.42
15 March 2023 
2.46
15 September 2023 
2.49
15 March 2024 
2.53
15 September 2024 
2.57
15 March 2025 
2.61
15 September 2025 
2.65
15 March 2026 
2.69
15 September 2026 
2.73
15 March 2027 
2.77
15 September 2027 
2.81
15 March 2028 
2.85
15 September 2028 
2.89
15 March 2029 
2.94
15 September 2029 
2.98
15 March 2030 
3.03
15 September 2030 
3.07
15 March 2031 
3.12
15 September 2031 
3.16
15 March 2032 
3.21
15 September 2032 
3.26
15 March 2033 
3.31
15 September 2033 
3.36
- 12 -
15 March 2034 
3.41
15 September 2034 
3.46
15 March 2035 
3.51
15 September 2035 
3.56
15 March 2036 
3.62
15 September 2036 
3.67
15 March 2037 
3.54
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Pi incipal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the dat:e of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issuec on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
- 13 -
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 14 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Coruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"CBT" means Competency-Based Training, a training involving a cluster of
related knowledge, skills, and attitudes that correlates with performance on the
job.
5. 
"ECOP" means the Envircnmental Codes of Practice, adopted and disclosed by
the Project Implementing Entity on September 20, 2011, 
which set out the
guidelines and procedures for environmental assessment and preparation of
environmental mitigation measures in respect of activities under the Project, as
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation
of said guidelines, as such guidelines may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
7. 
"Fiscal Year" and the acrcnym "FY" mean the Borrower's Fiscal Year covering
the period January 1 through December 31, each year.
8. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means Project-related incremental operating costs
incurred 
on account of 
implementation, management and monitoring,
dissemination of Project-related information, office rental and office equipment
purchase or leasing, maintenance and repair, vehicle leasing, equipment
maintenance and repair, travel, including travel to Project sites, security,
communication, bank charges, advertising, and other costs directly associated
with the Project, but excluding the salaries of the Borrower's and the Project
Implementing Entity's civil servants.
9. 
"Inter-Departmental TVET Coordination Committee" means the Committee
referred to under Part B.1 of the Project.
- 15 -
10. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
11. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated December 31, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
12. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Yunnan, or any
successor thereto.
13. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or the acronym "PIU" means any of the Project
Implementation Units to b. maintained by each of the Project Schools pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 2(c) of Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
14. 
"Project Implementation Manual" or the acronym "PIM" means the Project
Implementation Manual fo- the Project, dated December 31, 2011, which sets out
the eligibility and cost-sharing criteria of Project Schools, procedures and details
regarding the implementat' on of the Project, its monitoring and supervision, and
which includes the Financ:.al Management Manual, as the same may be updated
from time to time, with prior written agreement of the Bank.
15. 
"Project Management Office" and the acronym "PMO" mean the Project
Management Office established in Yunnan Provincial Department of Education,
and to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2(a) of Section I.B
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
16. 
"Project Schools" means, collectively, the following learning institutions: (i)
Tengchong No.1 Vocational School; (ii) Dali Secondary Vocational School; (iii)
Yunnan Technician College; (iv) Yunnan Jiaotong College; (v) Yunnan Traffic
Technician College; (vi) Yunnan Provincial Tourism and Vocational College;
(vii) Yunnan Qujing Agricultural School; (viii) Yunnan Land and Resources
Vocational College; and Iix)Yunnan Forestry Technological College, and any
successors to the foregoing learning institutions; and "Project School" means,
individually, any of such respective Project Schools.
17. 
"Provincial Expert Team" means the Provincial TVET Expert Team established
under Part B.2 of the Project.
18. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements referred to
Paragraph A.3 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in Paragraph B.4
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
- 16 -
supplemental to said agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means,
individually, any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
19. 
"TVET" means technical and vocational education and training.
20. 
"Training and Study Tours" shall mean to include the costs of training under the
Project, based on annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and
attributable to seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with travel and
subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, prepara:ion and reproduction of training materials, and other
expenditures directly related to trainer service and translation for course
preparation and implemen1ation.
21. 
"Yunnan" means the Borrower's Province of Yunnan, or any successor thereto.
