I0MUMENTS!
LOAN NUMBER 8062-AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Public Health Insurance Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of :he Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the
Loan 
Agreement), 
between 
ARGENTINE 
REPUBLIC 
("Borrower") 
and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral par: of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context recuires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agr,eement, the amount of four hundred million Dollars
($400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be dutermined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdraw i Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount cf the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 Lo this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any porticn of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Ar:icle IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from t me to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares ts commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MSN with the assistance of
the Participating Provinces (as provided in the corresponding Umbrella
Agreements), all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through
MSN shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3 -
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
that the PHIP Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
opinion of the Bank, the implementation, objectives and results of the
Project.
(b) 
that any Participating Province shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under its Umbrella Agreement and/or any of its Annual
Performance Agreements, and the Borrower shall have failed to exercise
its remedies undcr such agreements, in which case the Bank may only
suspend in who e or in part the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred as
payments to or for the benefit of the relevant Participating Province(s).
4.02. 
The Additional Events of 4 cceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement occurs for all
Participating Provinces and is continuing for a period of 60 days after
notice of the event for the last of the affected Participating Provinces has
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists, namely, that the Borrower,
through MSN, has duly and legally established the PHIP by means of the PHIP
Ministerial Resolution.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date, but in no case later
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire
on October 26, 2012.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address s:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas Pablicas
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086 AAB, Buenos Air-s
Argentina
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO
DE ECONOMIA 
121942-AR 
(5411) 4349-8815
Baires
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
[NTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington. D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5 -
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Bank on 4 
a 
1.J Z,D2, and
on behalf of the Borrower on 
/V.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
A 
horized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
ersen
t a t ive
Authorize Rpeettv
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase utilization and quality of key
health services for the uninsured target population; and (b) improve institutional
management by strengthening the incentives for results in Participating Provinces and
among Authorized Providers.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Supporting Provincial Public Health Insurance
1. 
Making Capitation Payments for PHIP services for the provision of: (a) general
health interventions; and (b) selected health interventions for catastrophic
diseases.
Part B: Institutional and Management Strengthening of the MSN and MSPs
1 .
Improving the management capacity of the MSN and the MSPs by:
(a) 
developing information systems, instruments, and capacity to manage the
PHIP, including the preparation and execution of annual performance
agreements between 
MSN and MSPs, and between MSPs and
Authorized Providers, new contracts and payment systems, outreach and
service delivery strategies for rural and indigenous peoples and other
excluded populations (including 
the promotion of communities'
participation, user rights, and culturally appropriate services for the
inclusion of indigenous populations);
(b) 
strengthening the health workforce skills of health staff in rural areas;
(c) 
improving 
epidemiological 
information, 
financial 
monitoring 
and
evaluation, and human resource management systems;
(d) 
streamlining regulatory and planning capacities within MSN health
program units and PHIUs;
(e) 
carrying out of studies on health system financing and related
mechanisms, all aimed at facilitating policy-making decisions of MSN
and MSPs;
(f) 
improving communication strategies for disseminating information about
health plans, changing behavior among health sector staff, and promoting
social participation; and
-7-
(g) 
supporting the Jesign and establishment of an observatory of the
Borrower's health system, and monitoring of policies producing data on
health and healih care of users (including the promotion of sector
knowledge and the fostering of transparency for improved sector
governance and accountability).
2. 
Supporting management, monitoring and evaluation capacities of the PCU, UFl-
S and PHIUs, through the provision of technical assistance (including the
financing of Operating Costs), and the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation,
and financial and technical audits under the Project.
Part C: Building Capacity of the MSN and MSPs to Deliver Services
1. 
Strengthening the supply capacity of the MSN and the MSPs through, inter alia:
(a) the provision of equipment (medical, transportation, information technology
and communications); and (b) maintenance services needed to upgrade and
expand MSN and MSPs' information and communication systems (excluding
civil works).
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of assisting the MSN in the overall management of the Project,
the Borrower, through MSN, shall:
(a) 
establish a Project coordination unit (the PCU), and maintain throughout
the execution of the Project, within the MSN, both the PCU and an
international 
health 
financing 
unit (UFI-S) 
to 
manage 
Project
implementation with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts and other
personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank; and
(b) 
cause the Participating Provinces, through the Umbrella Agreements, to
establish and mai itain throughout the execution of the Project, within the
respective MSPs. provincial health insurance units (the PHIUs), with
functions and reEponsibilities acceptable to both the Borrower and the
Bank and with s:aff in number and with qualifications and experience
acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank.
2. 
For the purposes of implementing Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through MSN:
(a) 
prepare, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a list
of eligible healthi services divided in three sections (the Nomenclador
Unico -A, the Nomenclador Unico B, and selected health interventions
for catastrophic diseases), to be provided by Authorized Providers
acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
develop, in agreement with the Bank, a matrix of health indicator goals
(the Trazadoras Matrix) in number and substance to be recorded in the
Operations Mantal, for the purposes of monitoring the achievement of
such indicator goals and transferring the Capitation Payments on a
periodic basis to the Participating Provinces, all under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
-9.-
3. 
The Borrower, through MSN, and the Bank shall jointly review at least once
every year, the Capitation Payments amount, the eligible health services included
in the Nomenclador Unico -A, the Nomenclador Unico - B, the selected health
interventions for catastrophic diseases, and the Trazadoras Matrix, and adjust
them (in number and substance) as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
4. 
Without limitation of the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through MSN, shall carry out the Project in accordance with an
operations manual, satisfa.tory to the Bank (the Operations Manual), containing,
inter alia: (a) the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the
personnel of the PCU, UFI-S and PHIUs responsible for the coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (b) the criteria, detailed rules and
procedures for the Capitation Payments; (c) procedures for procurement of
goods, Non-consultant Services and consultant's services, as well as for financial
management and audits of the Project; (d) the indicators to be used in the
monitoring and evaluatioi of the Project; (e) draft models for the Umbrella
Agreements and Annual :erformance Agreements; (f) detailed criteria for the
conversion of Eligible Population into Enrolled Population (procedures, activities
and monitoring indicators for the enrollment of said population); (g) detailed
criteria for the determination, measurement and control of Effective Coverage;
(h) the eligibility criteria for the incorporation of Provinces into the PHIP; (i) the
procedures for the revisicn and adjustment of the Nomenclador Unico-A, the
Nomenclador Unico-B, the selected health interventions for catastrophic
diseases, and the Trazadoras Matrix; (j) the flow and disbursement arrangements
of Project funds; (k) the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, including
criteria to ensure adequate and culturally appropriate access by indigenous
peoples to the PHIP; and (1) the GAAP.
5. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall establish and thereafter maintain
operative guidelin,s (the Provincial Operative Guidelines), satisfactory
to the Bank, which shall contain those chapters of the Operations Manual
of direct concern to the Participating Provinces and their role in the
implementation of the Project. Said operative guidelines shall be an
annex to the Umbrella Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower, through MSN, and each of the Participating Provinces.
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through MSN
shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operations Manual or the
Provincial Operative Guidelines, or any provision thereof. In case of any
conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the
Operations Manual 
or the Provincial 
Operative Guidelines, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
- 10 -
6. 
For the purposes of implementing the Project the Borrower, through MSN, shall:
(a) 
enter into an agreement 
(the Umbrella 
Agreement) 
with each
Participating 
Province, 
setting 
forth 
the 
technical, 
financial,
administrative, safeguard and fiduciary aspects of the national and
provincial participation in the implementation and use of funds under the
Project, including, inter alia: (i) the obligation of the Participating
Provinces to make available the Padr6n de Obra Social Provincial to
MSN, all in terms and conditions acceptable to MSN and the Bank; and
(ii) the obligatior of each Participating Province to provide its respective
counterpart fund:ng, necessary for the effective provision of the health
services financed and supported by Capitation Payments under Part A of
the Project.
(b) 
every year, starting immediately after the Effective Date for the first year
of the Project, and on January 1 thereafter, enter into a performance
agreement (the Annual Performance Agreement) with each Participating
Province, setting forth annual targets for the Trazadoras Matrix and
enrollment goals, the prices to be paid for each health service to
Authorized 
Providers under the Nomenclador Unico-A and the
Nomenclador Urico-B, the total annual cost of the provision of services
under the Nomenclador Unico-A and the Nomenclador Unico-B (as well
as their respective provincial contribution thereto), work programs and
resource requirements for the implementation of the Project, all on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(c) 
cause each Participating Province (through the respective Umbrella
Agreement) to: (i) enter into an agreement (or other formal arrangement
when the provider is public) with an Authorized Provider (the
Authorized 
Prcvider 
Agreement), 
setting forth, 
inter alia, the
Participating Provinces' payment mechanisms with respect to each of the
Authorized Prov iders; and (ii) ensure that payments from each of the
Participating Provinces to the Authorized Providers are solely in
payment of health services included in the Nomenclador Unico-A and/or
Nomenclador Uico-B, and in no case said payments shall include the
payment of salaries, supplies or any other production factor;
(d) 
cause each Participating Province, when applicable in accordance with
the provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (through
the respective Umbrella Agreement) to prepare (if determined by the
IPPF and the Bank), and carry out the applicable Indigenous Peoples
Plan in accordance with its terms;
(e) 
cause each Participating Province to take all necessary actions to enable
the Borrower to comply with its pertinent obligations as set forth under
this Agreement, including those set forth or referred to in the General
Conditions, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the GAAP, in respect of
the carrying out of the Project as it may apply to the assistance provided
by the respective Participating Province; and
(f) 
(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Umbrella
Agreement and each Annual Performance Agreement in such a manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; (ii) cause each Participating
Province to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Authorized Provider Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan; and (iii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign,
amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Umbrella
Agreement and/o:- Annual Performance Agreement or any provision
thereof.
7. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall make Capitation Payments available
to a Province, only after said Province has fulfilled the eligibility criteria
set forth in the Operations Manual and the requirements set forth in this
Agreement in order to become a Participating Province. Such Capitation
Payments shall be made in the following manner:
(i) 
during the first eight months after the Effective Date, the
Borrower, through MSN, shall disburse 100% of the Capitation
Payment 
amount 
every 
month 
immediately 
after 
the
Participating Province has sent to MSN the registry with the
Enrolled Population as of the previous month and the MSN has
certified and validated said registry, and certified as having
received Effective Coverage; and
(ii) 
thereafter, said Capitation Payment shall be made in two
installments: (A) 60% every month, immediately after the
Participatiig Province has sent to the MSN the monthly registry
with the Enrolled Population as described in (i) above, and
certified as having received Effective Coverage; and (B) the
remaining 40% shall be disbursed initially every four months,
after verification of the Participating Province's performance
with respect to the Trazadoras Matrix, as provided in the
Operations Manual, the Provincial Operative Guidelines and the
Annual Performance Agreements. The initial 4-month period
may be modified if necessary, in a manner satisfactory to both
the MSN and the Bank.
- 12 -
(b) 
For the purposes of the certification and validation procedure referred to
in (a) above, the Borrower, through MSN, shall: (i) appoint under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter maintain during the
execution of the Project, an independent technical auditing firm with
qualifications anc. terms of contracting satisfactory to the Bank (the
Technical Auditor) responsible for performing bimonthly (or any other
interval acceptable to the Bank) audits on the Trazadoras Matrix, the
registry of Enrolled Population and the provision of Effective Coverage;
and (ii) use as support documentation the Padr6n de Obra Social
Provincial, the P ,dr6n de Obras Sociales Nacionales, and the reports
provided by the Technical Auditor, all in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
(c) 
In case a Participating Province fails to achieve a determined number of
health indicator goals included in the Trazadoras Matrix (as said number
is agreed and set forth in the Operations Manual), for three consecutive
four-month periods, the Borrower, through MSN, may suspend the right
of said Participa:ing Province to receive funds under Part A of the
Project.
8. 
The Borrower shall through MSN:
(a) 
every year, startir g immediately after the Effective Date for the first year
of the Project, and no later than March 31 of every year of Project
implementation thereafter, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual
implementation plan (the Annual Implementation Plan), each said plan to
include, inter alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by the
Borrower, through MSN, during the calendar year following the
presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the updated Procurement Plan for
each said calendar year; and
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Implementation Plan, as approved
by the Bank, in aiccordance with its terms.
9. 
For purposes of implementing the Project, the Borrower shall enact, through
MSN, a ministerial resolution (the "PHIP Ministerial Resolution") setting forth
the technical, financial, administrative, safeguard and fiduciary roles, within
MSN, with regard to the scope and implementation of the Project, under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
- 13 -
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MSN, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the GAAP and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall moni-or and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the tasis of Project indicators set forth in the Operations
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester
(starting with the calendar semester in which the Effective Date falls), and shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MSN, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank no later than forty five days
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through VSN, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audiled Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall, thro'gh MSN, not later than sixty days after the Effective
Date, create and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, specific
national budget line entries in its annual budget in order to record all
expenditures and Capitalion Payments (considered transfers under each such
annual budget) incurred dLiring Project implementation.
-14-
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consultant Services. All goods and Non-consultant Services
required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of :he Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods bf review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Cuidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and Non-consultant Services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding which may, at the
Borrower's option be subject to Domestic Preference (which would be applicable
to the procurement of goods only under International Competitive Bidding), as
per paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines..
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, whioh may be used for goods and Non-consultant Services.
The Procurement Plan she.11 specify the circumstances under which such methods
may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
- 15 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1I 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods cf procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection
(b) Quality-based Selection
(c) Consultants Qualifications Selection
(d) Single Source Selection
(e) Fixed-Budget Selectin
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Special Provisions
The following special p:ocurement provisions shall apply to procurement of
goods, Non-consultant Services and consultants' services under the Project:
1 .
All procurement shall be done using standard bidding documents, standard
requests for proposals, tr odel bid evaluation forms, model proposal evaluation
forms and contract forms previously agreed with the Bank.
2. 
Bidding 
documents 
for National 
Competitive 
Bidding 
shall 
include
anticorruption clauses as required by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and
acceptable to the Bank, including those that give the Bank audit rights over
bidders, suppliers, contra:tors, sub-contractors, consultants and sub-consultants.
These clauses shall be substantially identical to those pertaining to the Bank's
standard bidding documents for International Competitive Bidding.
- 16 -
3. 
For consultant services contracts, only the types of contracts listed in Section IV
of the Consultant Guidelines may be used.
4. 
Foreign and local contractors, service providers, consultants and suppliers shall
not be required: (a) to register; (b) to establish residence in Argentina; or (c) to
enter into association witi other national or international bidders as a condition
for submitting bids or pro3osals.
5. 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid opening, requests for
expressions of interest anl notifications of contract award of all processes aimed
at the procurement of goods, Non-consultant Services and consultants' services,
as the case may be, shall be published in the web page of Oficina Nacional de
Contrataciones in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be
counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the bidding
documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid opening.
6. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
feed the Bank publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System
(SEPA) within 31) days after the Project has been approved by the Bank
with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan, and
maintain such information updated along Project implementation for
monitoring purposes and reporting; and
(b) 
update the Procurement Plan at least twice a year or as needed to reflect
the actual Project implementation needs and progress and will feed the
SEPA with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan
immediately thereafter.
7. 
Bidders and consultants shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other
bidders' bids or consultants' proposals, as the case may be.
8. 
After the public openirg of bids for goods and Non-consultant Services and
consultants' proposals, information relating to the examination, clarification and
evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall not be
disclosed to bidders or consultants, or other persons not officially concerned with
this process until the publication of contract award (except as provided in
paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines).
9. 
Witness prices shall nol be used as a parameter for a bid evaluation or contract
award.
10. 
A two-envelope system of procurement will not be used for the procurement of
goods or Non-consultant Services (other than consultants' services).
- 17-
11. 
Contracts for goods and Non-consultant Services (other than consultants'
services) shall not be awarded to the "most convenient" bid but to the one that
has been determined to be substantially responsive and the lowest evaluated bid,
provided that further the bidder is determined to be qualified to perform the
contract satisfactorily.
12. 
Inclusion of the bidder in lists published by specialized magazines will not be an
acceptable criterion for determining the qualification of such bidder.
13. 
Compliance with the International Standards Office (ISO) standards and any
other equivalent shall not be required as a condition for bid qualification and/or
contract award.
14. 
The lowest evaluated bidder shall not be required to reduce its bid as a condition
of contract award.
15. 
National Competitive Bidding procedures would be modified in order to make
them identical to International Competitive Bidding procedures, exception made
of the following features: (i) advertisement may be limited to the national press
or official gazette, and the Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones website; (ii) the
Borrower's currency may be used for the purposes of bidding and payment; (iii)
the bidding period (from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the
date that the documents are available, whichever is later, to the date of bid
opening) may be reduced to 30 days; and (iv) the INCOTERM clause Delivery
Duty Paid (DDP) may be used for the procurement of goods.
16. 
Consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities.
17. 
In information technology procurement, the Borrower's criterion for determining
the eligibility of computer manufacturers established in ETAP will not apply.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
- 18 -
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods 
50,000,000 
85%
(2) Consultants' services 
53,000,000 
100%
(including technical
audits), Non-consultant
Services and Training
Under Nomenclador
Unico-A:
100% until December 31,
2012; 85% until
December 31, 2013;
65% until December 31,
(3) Capitation Payments 
275,000,000 
2014; and 60% thereafter
under Part A.1(a) of the
Project
Under Nomenclador
Unico-B, starting on
January 1, 2013 (as per
Section B. .(c) below):
85% until December 31,
2013; 65% until
December 31, 2014; and
60% thereafter
(4) Capitation Payments 
15,000,000 
60% as per Section B.1 (d)
under Part A. 1(b) of the 
below
Project
(5) Operating Costs 
6,000,000 
100%
(6) Front-end Fee 
1,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
- 19 -
(7) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
400,000,000
3. 
For purposes of the preceding table the term "Training" means expenditures
(other than those for consultants' services) incurred by MSN to finance
reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if
applicable) and rental of training facilities, materials and equipment under the
Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the prov:.sions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date;
(b) 
for expenditures under Categories (3) and (4) until the Technical Auditor
has been contracted under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(c) 
for expenditures inder Category (3) in respect of Capitation Payments
for health services provided under Nomenclador Unico-B before the
Closing Date of the Second Provincial Maternal-Child Health Project
(i.e. December 31, 2012); and
(d) 
for expenditures under Category (4) before the Closing Date of the
Second Provincial Maternal-Child Health Project (i.e. December 31,
2012).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Arnortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2017 
2.44%
through May 15, 2037
On November 15, 2037 
2.40%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan .3alance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Frincipal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-21 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Paymen: Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange :-ate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 22 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
(1) 
"Anti-Corruption Guidel nes" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
(2) 
"Annual Implementation Plan" means each implementation plan referred to in
Section 1.8(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(3) 
"Annual Performance Agreement" means each agreement referred to in Section
I.6.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(4) 
"Arg$" means Argentine Peso, the lawful currency of the Borrower.
(5) 
"Authorized Provider" means any public or private health facility which meets
the criteria set forth in the Operations Manual.
(6) 
"Authorized Provider Agreement" means each agreement referred to in Section
1.6(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(7) 
"Capitation Payment" means a financial transfer from the Borrower, through
MSN, to the Participating Provinces: (a) under Part A. 1(a) of the Project in an
initial amount of Arg$7 per person enrolled in the PHIP of each relevant month;
and (b) under Part A. 1(b) of the Project in an initial amount of Arg$2.50 per
person enrolled in the PHIP of each relevant month (as this amount may be
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank), to cover a share
of the total cost of health services rendered to Enrolled Population and included
in the Nomenclador Unico-A and/or in the Nomenclador Unico-B, and selected
health interventions for catastrophic diseases.
(8) 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
(9) 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
(10) 
"Effective Coverage" means the provision of a health service intervention to an
individual within the Emolled Population, according to each defined age group
and in a given period of time, which services are included in the Nomenclador
Unico-A and/or the Nomenclador Unico-B, or within the selected health
interventions for catastrophic diseases, and billed to the PHIP, as this coverage
mechanism is further detEailed in the Operations Manual.
-23-
(11) 
"Eligible Population" means all uninsured children under 10 years of age,
uninsured youths from 10 to 19 years old, and uninsured women from 20 to 64
years of age, living within the territory of a Participating Province.
(12) 
"Enrolled Population" means the Eligible Population that has voluntarily enrolled
in the PHIP in a Participating Province.
(13) 
"GAAP" means Governance and Accountability Action Plan, the Borrower's
plan dated November 10, 2010 and updated February 23, 2010, as agreed with
the Bank, and included in the Operations Manual, setting forth measures and
actions to be taken during implementation of the Project with respect to
mitigation of corruption, including collusion, forgery and fraud, handling of
complaints, sanctions and remedies.
(14) 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
(15) 
"INCOTERM" 
means te universally 
recognized 
set of definitions of
international commercial terms developed by the International Chamber of
Commerce (ICC) in Paris, France.
(16) 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means any of the plans acceptable to the
Bank, to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower, and/or the pertinent
Participating Province wh:n applicable as set forth in the Operations Manual, all
prepared and to be carried out following the requirements of the Indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework.
(17) 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework, acceptable to the Bank (included in the Operations Manual), dated
December 30, 2010 setting forth the indigenous peoples policy framework
applicable to all the activities to be carried out under the Project and the basis and
procedures to prepare and adopt indigenous peoples' plans or related instruments
during Project implementa:ion.
(18) 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization, an international-
standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national
standards organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and
commercial standards for products.
(19) 
"MSN" means Ministerio de Salud de la Naci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of
Health.
(20) 
"MSP" means Ministerio de Salud Provincial (or its equivalent in each
Province), each of the Borrower's Participating Provinces' Ministries of Health.
- 24 -
(21) 
"Nomenclador Unico-A" means the list of eligible health services referred to in
Section 1.2(a) of Schedulc 2 to this Agreement and in the Operations Manual,
consisting of selected preventive and in-patient health interventions for children
of age 6 to 9; youths from ige 10 to 19, and for women of ages 20 to 64.
(22) 
"Nomenclador Unico-B" means the list of eligible health services referred to in
Section 1.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the Operations Manual,
consisting of preventive and in-patient health interventions for maternal health
care and for children under 6 years of age.
(23) 
"Non-consultant Services" means services which will be bid and contracted on
the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs, and which are not
otherwise covered by any other category of Eligible Expenditures.
(24) 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable cost of recurrent expenditures of MSN
in Project implementation such as consumable items, utilities and supplies, which
would not have been incurred absent the Project.
(25) 
"Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated March 10, 2011,
referred to in Section 1.4 cf Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(26) 
"PadrMn de Obra Social Provincial" means each of the Participating Provinces'
enrollment databases containing information regarding individuals participating
in the Province's social health insurance scheme.
(27) 
"Padrdn de Obras Sociales Nacionales" means the national enrollment database
consolidating informatior. regarding individuals participating in National Social
Health Insurance Entities programs.
(28) 
"Participating Province" means any Province or the Autonomous City of Buenos
Aires (Ciudad Aut6noma de Buenos Aires) that has fulfilled the requirements of
this Agreement and the Operations Manual to be eligible to participate and
receive funds from the Project.
(29) 
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 1.1(a) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
(30) 
"PHIP" means Programa de Desarrollo de Seguros Puiblicos Provinciales de
Salud, the Borrower's Provincial Development Public Health Insurance Program,
as set forth in the PHIP Ministerial Resolution, with the objective of
strengthening the coverage and quality of health services to be provided
throughout the Borrower's territory.
- 25 -
(31) 
"PHIP Ministerial Resolution" means MSN's resolution referred to in Section
I.A.9 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(32) 
"PHIU" means any of the Provincial units referred to in Section 1.1(b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(33) 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006 and May 2010.
(34) 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 23, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
(35) 
"Province" means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the
Borrower's Constitution or the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires (Ciudad
Aut6noma de Buenos Aires), and the term "Provinces" means all of said political
subdivisions.
(36) 
"Provincial Operative Guidelines" means the operative guidelines referred to in
Section 1.5.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(37) 
"Second Provincial Maternal-Child Health Project" means the Project supported
by the Loan No. 7409-AR, and described in Schedule I to the Loan agreement
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank on May 9, 2007, as amended.
(38) 
"SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.
(39) 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references
to "the date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
(40) 
"Technical Auditor" meais the independent auditing firm mentioned in Section
I.7(b)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(41) 
"Trazadoras Matrix" means the matrix agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, as set forth in the Operations Manual, and which contains the health
indicator goals referred to in Section I.A.2(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(42) 
"UFI-S" means MSN's unit referred to in Section 1.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
(43) 
"Umbrella Agreement" means each agreement referred to in Section 1.6.(a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
