OFFICIAL
cocumeasn
LOAN NUMBER 8095-BR
Loan Agreement
(Energy and Mineral Sectors Strengthening Project -
Projeto de Assistdncia Tienica dos Setores de Energia e Mineral - META)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
' 
,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Jq1rCA / 
, 2012, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL (Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty nine million six hundred four
thousand and one hundred twenty seven Dollars ($ 49,604,127), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Executive Secretary of the MME.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IHl -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through MME, shall carry out the Project with the
participation of 
CPRM, DNPM, EPE, ANEEL, ONS and CEPEL (the
Participating Entities), each within their respective area of autonomy and
competence, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, and pertinent Subsidiary Agreements.
-2-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
Any Participating Entity shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the relevant Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) 
A situation shall have arisen so as to materially and adversely affect, in
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of any Participating Entity to carry
out its obligations under the relevant Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 7.02 of the General Conditions,
it is understood that, if any of the Participating Entities shall have failed to
comply with any obligation under its corresponding Subsidiary Agreement or a
situation shall have arisen so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion
of the Bank, the ability of any Participating Entity to carry out its obligations
under the relevant Subsidiary Agreement, and the Borrower has been unable to
remedy such lack of compliance, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account for Eligible Expenditures attributable to the respective
Participating Entity.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement with CEPEL has been executed by the
respective parties thereto.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement with CEPEL has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and CEPEL and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and CEPEL in accordance with its terms.
-3-
(b) 
The Loan has been registered with the Borrower's Central Bank.
5.03 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire June 20, 2013.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Minist6rio da Fazenda
Procuradoria-Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Minist6rios, Bloco "P" - 80 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70048-900
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 3412-1740
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Orgamento e Gestao
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco K - 50 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70040-906
Brazil
Facsimile: 
(55-61) 2020-5006
And to:
Minist6rio de Minas e Energia - MME
Esplanada dos Minist6rios, Bloco "U' - 70 andar - sala 728
Brasilia - DF, 70065-900
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 3319-5240
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Brasilia, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of key public sector
institutions to improve the contribution of energy and mining resources to accelerated
national economic growth and increased social and environmental sustainability in a
context of globalization and technological change.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to promote the sustainable
development of the energy and mineral sectors
Provision of support for strengthening the capacity of the Borrower and the
Participating Entities in the areas of planning, social and environmental sustainability,
and in managing, evaluating and monitoring activities under their responsibility,
including:
1.1. 
Planning of the energy and mineral sectors
Strengthen the ability of MME to formulate and implement strategies aiming at:
(i) expanding the supply of cost-effective and sustainable energy to meet the
evolution of demand, in the medium- and long-term; and (ii) improving
governance, increasing value added, and enhancing sustainability in the mining
sector, all through the carrying out of studies, collection of data, and
development of information systems;
1.2. 
Strengthening capacity to design and implement policies and practices to
facilitate the expansion and improve the sustainability of the energy and mineral
sectors
Strengthen the Borrower's capacity to design and implement policies and
practices to facilitate the expansion of the energy and mineral sectors, and to
improve the environmental and social sustainability of said sectors, including: (i)
the carrying out of studies and training activities aimed at identifying
opportunities, developing policies and disseminating best practices to improve
environmental and social sustainability of the energy and mineral sectors; and (ii)
the provision of support to improve institutional communication related to the
implementation of said policies and practices.
-6-
1.3. 
Management, monitoring and evaluation of activities and dissemination of results
Strengthen the capacity of the Executive Secretary of MME to manage, monitor
and evaluate technical assistance activities, in particular Project activities, as well
as to disseminate Project results.
Part 2. Strengthening of regulatory institutions
Provision of support for: (a) strengthening the frameworks governing the legal,
institutional, and oversight functions and responsibilities of the Participating Entities; and
(b) capacity building for the formulation of policies, regulations and guidelines on the
energy and mineral sectors, including:
2.1. 
Strengthening the monitoring and control capacity of the power sector
Strengthening the monitoring and control capacity of the Borrower's power
sector, mainly of ANEEL and DNPM, including the development of more
efficient tools to take effective regulatory action.
2.2. 
Institutional strengthening in the area of geology and mineral resources
Institutional strengthening in the area of geology and mineral resources,
including provision of support for the modernization of DNPM and CPRM.
Part 3. Technology Development
Provision of support for the development and use of cutting edge technologies to:
(i) improve research and development capacity of the Borrower's power sector to
transport efficiently and reliably large blocks of energy across continent-wide distances;
and (ii) enhance CPRM's capacity to use geophysics equipment for the prevention of
natural disasters, and to improve its capacity to investigate the quality of mineral
deposits, and thus attract investments, including:
3.1. 
Investments in research and technological development
Carrying out of selected investments in research and technological development,
including: (i) the refurbishment and technology development of the technical
laboratories of CPRM and CEPEL to meet the evolving demands for research
and technological development in the energy and mineral sectors; and (ii) the
implementation of a security technology (phasor measurement units) for the
National Interconnected System operated by the ONS.
-7-
3.2. 
Studies in research and technological development
Carrying out of studies in research and technological development in the energy
and mineral sectors required for the implementation and development of new
technologies in these sectors.
Part 4. Support to South-South Cooperation
Provision of support to MME and to selected Borrower's agencies and entities (to
be selected by the Borrower and to be acceptable to the Bank) to: (a) assist them in, inter
alia, developing internal procedures and information and/or knowledge systems for
purposes of carrying out South-South Cooperation between Brazil and Participating
Countries; and (b) provision of technical assistance, training and carrying out of
workshops, to support South-South Cooperation, both in the areas of, inter alia,
regulation, renewable energy, climate change, clean energy, geological surveys,
information systems and environmental and social sustainability, all within the energy
and mining sectors.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MME, shall carry out the Project with the
participation of the Participating Entities (each within their respective
area of autonomy and competence), all in accordance with the
Operational Manual, including the Procurement Plan, the Environmental
and Social Management Framework and the Environmental Management
Plan.
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend
or waive any provision of any of these documents without the Bank's
prior written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of any
said documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall operate and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the
execution of the Project:
(a) 
a Project Steering Committee (the PSC), to be responsible for overseeing
Project implementation and coordination among the Participaing Entities,
and with structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in
the Operational Manual;
(b) 
a coordination unit within the Executive Secretariat of the MME, to be
responsible for the overall implementation of the Project (the "PMU").
Such unit shall serve as executive secretariat of the PSC and shall have
staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank including a general coordinator, a planning and
control 
coordinator, 
an administrative 
coordinator, 
a 
financial
coordinator and a technical coordinator, all as set forth in the Operational
Manual; and
(c) 
Project Co-executing units physically located in each of the Participating
Entities (the Project Co-executing Units). Such units shall assist the
PMU in implementing, supervising and monitoring the activities under
the responsibility of the relevant Participating Entity, and have structure
and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and staff in adequate numbers and
with adequate qualifications, as set forth in the Operational Manual and
in the respective Subsidiary Agreement.
-9-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Subsidiary Agreements
1 .
The Borrower, through MME, shall, prior to carrying out any Project activity
under the administrative jurisdiction of a Participating Entity, enter into an
agreement with said Participating Entity (the Subsidiary Agreement), under terms
and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
MME's obligation to:
(i) transfer to the Participating Entities, when applicable, on a non-
reimbursable basis, part of the Loan proceeds necessary to carry out the
Project activities under their responsibility; and
(ii) comply with the pertinent obligations under this Agreement, as
applicable to the pertinent Project activity; and
(b) 
the Participating Entities' obligation to, when applicable:
(i) procure the goods, consultants' services and Non-Consulting services
under the Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section
III of this Schedule; and
(ii) carry out the Project activities under their responsibility with due
diligence and efficiency and to comply with the pertinent obligations
under this Agreement, including with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, all as applicable to the corresponding Project
activity.
2. 
The Borrower, through MME, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Subsidiary Agreement or
any provision thereof.
D. 
Safeguards - Environmental and Social Management Framework
1 .
The Borrower shall, through the Project Management Unit and with the
assistance of the pertinent Project Co-executing Unit:
- 10 -
(a) (i) implement the Project (with the exception of Part 3.1 of the Project) in
accordance with the Environmental and Social Management Framework
(including the provisions for environmental assessment, natural habitats,
forests, and chance finding of cultural property); and
(ii) implement Part 3.1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
Environmental Management Plan; and
(b) adopt the procedures detailed in said Environmental and Social Management
Framework 
for 
environmental 
and 
social 
screening, 
evaluation,
implementation and monitoring of said Parts of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through MME, shall ensure, and/or cause the Participating
Entities to ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of
any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof
and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements
of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower, through MME, with the assistance of the Participating Entities,
shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than ninety days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower, through MME, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MME, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days
after the end of each quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MME, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
-11 -
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was
made under the Project. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Works, Goods, and Non-Consulting Services. All works, goods and Non-
consulting Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-Consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, works, goods and Non-Consulting Services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-Consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for works, goods and
Non-Consulting Services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
- 12 -
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of goods, Non-
Consulting 
Services 
and works, 
convite, tomada de pregos and
concorr6ncia set forth in the Borrower's Law No. 8666 of June 21, 1993,
as well as procurement in accordance with the method known as "pregdo
eletr6nico", as provided in the Borrower's Law No. 10520, of July 17,
2002, and in Decree no 5450 of May 31, 2005 under COMPRASNET, the
Borrower's procurement portal), subject to the following additional
procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the
Bank.
(b) Shopping, including in respect of goods and services, pregao eletr6nico set
forth in Borrower's Law no 10520, of July 17, 2002 and in Decree no 5450
of May 31, 2005, under COMPRASNET.
(c) Direct contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(b) Least Cost Selection
(c) Selection based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(d) Single-source Selection
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth
in paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review.' All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 13 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures
Loan Loan 
to be financed
Category 
Allocated
(expressed in 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Dollars)
(1) Goods, works and
Non-Consulting 
35,407,300 
100%
Services
(2) Consultants' 
12,664,300 
100%
services
(3) Training 
542,900 
100%
(4) Operating Costs 
865,616 
100%
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
(5) Front-end Fee 
124,011 
Agreement 
in 
accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(6) Premium for
Amount payable pursuant to
Interest Rate Caps 
0 
Section 
2.07 
(c) 
of this
and Interest Rate 
Agreement
Collars
TOTAL AMOUNT 
49,604,127
3. 
For the purposes of this table:
(a) 
the term "Operating Costs" 
means reasonable cost of eligible
expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with the daily
- 14 -
operation of the Project, including, inter alia, travel costs and per diem,
maintenance of equipment, office supplies and materials, costs related to
strengthening 
communication 
and disseminating 
results 
(events,
communication plans, publications), which expenditures would not have
been incurred absent the Project.
(b) 
the term "Training" means reasonable cost of eligible expenditures
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out workshops
and training preparation and administration under the Project, including,
inter alia, travel costs, and per diem of trainees, course fees, rental of
training facilities and purchase of training materials.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. The Bank shall only grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Borrower's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank
that it agrees with such extension.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings -
1 .
No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall
appoint a procurement officer under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
By May 31, 2013, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, and without
limitation to the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation
of the Project (Midterm Review). The Midterm Review shall cover the
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project; and
(b) 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any
corrective action as shall be agreed between the Borrower and Bank.
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on September
15, 2029.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ANEEL" means Agincia Nacional de Energia El6trica, the Borrower's
Electricity Regulatory Agency, as existing and operating under the Borrower's
Law No 9427, dated December 26, 1996.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" 
means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, and 4.37 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.ore/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"CEPEL" means Centro de Pesquisas de Energia El6trica, the Borrower's
National Center for Research in Electricity, as existing and operating under the
Resolution of Centrais El6tricas Brasileiras S.A. (Eletrobris) Board of Directors
No. 950/73 , dated November 27, 1973.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
7. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C. 1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"CPRM" means Companhia de Pesquisa de Recursos Minerais, the Borrower's
Company for Mineral Resources Research and Geological Survey, as existing
and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 8970, dated December 28, 1994.
9. 
"DNPM" means Departamento Nacional de Produqdo Mineral, National
Department of Mineral Production as existing and operating under the
Borrower's Decree 23.979, dated March 8, 1934, as amended to date.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the Borrower's
framework dated August 23, 2011, acceptable to the Bank (included in the
Operational Manual), and published and available to the public on the website
http://www.mme.gov.br/mme/noticias/destaque2/destaque 
266.html, 
which
contains, inter alia, the environmental and social principles and policies that shall
- 17 -
apply to the implementation of the Project, including the provisions for
environmental assessment, natural habitats, forests and chance finding of cultural
property.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated July 15,
2011, prepared by CEPEL and acceptable to the Bank (included in Operational
Manual), 
and published and available to the public on the website
http://www.mme.gov.br/nune/noticias/destaque2/destaque 
266.html, 
which
contains the assessment and mitigation measures of the potential environmental
and social impacts of the carrying out of Part 3.1 of the Project
12. 
"EPE" means Empresa de Pesquisa Energ6tica, the Energy Planning Agency, as
existing and operating under the Borrower's Law No 10847, dated March 15,
2004.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
14. 
"MME" means Minist6rio de Minas e Energia, the Borrower's Ministry of Mines
and Energy.
15. 
"National 
Interconnected 
System" means the Borrower's high voltage
transmission network managed by ONS.
16. 
"Non-Consulting Services" means the costs of services which are of non-
intellectual nature and that can be procured on the basis of performance of
measurable physical outputs, including, inter alia, transport and service sectors
energy consumption and natural gas potential market surveys.
17. 
"ONS" means Operador Nacional do Sistema El6trico, the Borrower's National
Operator of the Transmission System, as existing and operating under the
Borrower's Law No 9648, dated May 27, 1998, as amended by Law no 10.848/04.
18. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's operational manual for the Project,
satisfactory to the Bank to be adopted by the Borrower, which shall contain,
inter alia: (i) the functions and responsibilities (including the terms of reference
for the personnel of said units and committee) of: (A) the Project Management
Unit; (B) the Project Co-executing Units; and (C) the PSC; (ii) the Project's
procurement and financial management procedures and arrangements, as well as
the terms of reference for the financial management and procurement audits of
the Project; (iii) flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds; and (iv)
the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Environmental
Management Plan.
- 18 -
19. 
"Participating Countries" means any member country of the Bank and/or the
International Development Association (the Association) other than the Borrower
which is eligible to receive financial assistance from the Bank and/or the
Association.
20. 
"Participating Entity" means, collectively, CPRM, DNPM, EPE, ANEEL, ONS
and CEPEL.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated August 30, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"PMU" or "Project Management Unit" means Unidade Gestora do Projeto, the
unit referred to in Section I.A.2 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Project Co-executing Units" means any of the supervision units referred to in
Section I.A.2 (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"PSC" or "Project Steering Committee" means Comitj Gestor do Projeto, the
committee referred to in Section I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which
is in charge of overall coordination for the Project as further detailed in the
Operational Manual.
26. 
"South-South Cooperation" means the cooperation between the Borrower and
any Participating Country in the areas referred to in the Part 4 of the Project.
27. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C. 1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
- 19 -
