I OPPICtAL
LOAN NUMBER 8150-GA
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Phase of the Central African Backbone Program - Gabon Project)
between
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
.2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8150-GA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
fDc,. 
r 
,2012, between the GABONESE
REPUBLIC 
("Borrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
(A) 
By extending financial assistance: (i) in 2007 to the Republic of
Cameroon, the Central African Republic and the Republic of Chad; and (ii) in 2011 to the
Rep6blica DemocrAtica de SAo Tom6 e Principe and the Republic of Congo, the
International Development Association has provided support to precedent activities under
the Central African Backbone Program ("Program") which aims to support populations,
businesses and governments across the Central African region to have access to quality and
affordable information and communication technology services on open, transparent and non-
discriminatory terms; and
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the project ("Project", as described in Schedule I hereto) under the fourth phase of the
Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Preamble to this Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of Dollars fifty-eight million (USD
58,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the Project.
-2-
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November I in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts 1 and 3 of the Project through the
CCSPFOG; (ii) pursuant to the ACE Agreement, cause Part 2.1 of the Project to
be carried -out by the ACE Subsidiary; and (iii) pursuant to the Backbone
Agreement, cause Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project to be carried out by the SPV,
all in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The ACE Subsidiary or the SPV, as the case may be, shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under, respectively, the ACE Agreement
or the Backbone Agreement.
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make
it improbable that the ACE Subsidiary or the SPV, as the case may be,
will be able to perform any of its obligations under, respectively, the
ACE Agreement or the Backbone Agreement.
(c) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the ACE Subsidiary
or the SPV, as the case may be, or for the suspension of its operations.
(d) 
The CCSPFOG Legislation, the ACE Subsidiary Legislation or the SPV
Legislation, as the case may be, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the CCSPFOG, the ACE Subsidiary or the SPV, as the case
may be, to perform any of its obligations under, respectively, this
Agreement, the ACE Agreement or the Backbone Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
-4-
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The CCSPFOG has been established and has been made operational, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower shall have adopted the Project Implementation Manual in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy, Employment, and
Sustainable Development.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy, Employment,
and Sustainable Development
B.P. 747
Libreville
Gabonese Republic
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
(241) 79-57-98
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
(1) 202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCD
-5 -
AGREED at 
v 
\Q 
, 
AlbPIJ 
, as of the day and
year first above written.
GABONESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorize 
esentative
Name: 0A 0 
E0 
C
Title:
IN 
RNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized
Name: 7 
,
Title:cc 
A
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to increase geographical reach and
usage of regional broadband network services and to reduce their prices in the territory of
the Borrower.
The Project constitutes the fourth phase of the Program, and consists of the
following parts:
Part 1: Enabling Environment
Carrying out of a comprehensive program of technical assistance, including the
provision of goods, required for:
1 .
The promotion and implementation of the Open Access regime and PPP for the
Borrower's international and national connectivity, consisting of the hiring of
legal/transaction, regulatory and business advisors to advise the Borrower on the
negotiations with private sector operators, and including the carrying out of
technical and financial audits of the structures to be setup, the delivery of
workshops for the promotion of PPP investment in the telecommunications
sector, the design of the tender and audit documents for the national backbone
under Part 2.2 of the Project and the design of the tender and audit documents for
the setting up of the Internet Exchange Point and a Carrier Hotel under Part 2.3
of the Project.
2. 
The 
review, 
improvement 
and 
development 
of 
the 
Borrower's
telecommunications and information laws with a view to ensure, inter alia, their
coherence and harmonization with the pertinent CEMAC regional directives.
3. 
The strengthening of the Borrower's key stakeholders' (the MENCP, the ANINF
and the ARCEP) capacity to provide policy and regulatory capacity building,
including regulatory tools, cost models, monitoring and evaluation capacity, and
encompassing a range of activities, focused studies and training designed to assist
the MENCP, the ANINIF and the ARCEP in improving the overall policy,
competitive and regulatory environment for the Borrower's ICT sector.
4. 
The provision of increased broadband access, including rural access, as well as
further liberalization in the Borrower's territory, encompassing the development
of a comprehensive policy to promote broadband use in the Borrower's territory
with the aim to facilitate uptake of demand and applications available following
the improved access to connectivity, in particular though ISPs and local content
providers as well as increased geographical reach of broadband in the Borrower's
territory by a revised universal access strategy.
-7-
5. 
The implementation of a management policy for Internet domain names, subject
to existing international agreements and arrangements, with the objective of
enabling the Gabonese stakeholders to determine the most appropriate technical
and institutional management structure for future growth and long-term
sustainability, the carrying out of a diagnosis summary of the current status of the
use of ".ga", and the provision of recommendations to develop a national
management policy for the ".ga" domain as well as a communication plan around
the ".ga" domain at the national and international level.
6. 
The scaling up of the e-government strategy to leverage new connectivity,
encompassing the assessment of the status of the actions undertaken to date in the
implementation of e-government applications, the analysis of the progress and
delays in connection thereto, and the preparation of detailed recommendations to
update and reutilize the Borrower's e-government strategy, including an action
plan thereon.
Part 2: Connectivity
1 .
Membership and participation of the ACE Subsidiary on behalf of the Borrower
in the ACE Consortium on the basis of an Open Access basis and PPP structure,
through the financing of the Consortium Fee to allow the Borrower to leverage
private sector investment.
2. 
Construction by the SPV of a terrestrial fiber optic link of approximately 800
kilometers between Libreville - Franceville - Bakumba - Lekoko / Border with
Congo to interconnect with the Congolese link Dolisie - Mbinda and thereby
ensure interconnection with the neighboring country and of additional terrestrial
fiber optic links of approximately 340 kilometers from Lekoni to Koulamoutou
via Franceville to connect two main secondary cities (Lekoni, Koulamoutou) and
commence the building of a south loop to back up the Libreville-Franceville link,
thus contributing to increase geographical reach and usage of broadband network
services, through the provision of works, goods and services required for the
purpose.
3. 
The setting up of an Internet Exchange Point (IXP) and of a Carrier Hotel to
access the international and national backbone capacity, through the provision of
works, goods and services required to construct the point of access and
collocation center to allow networks to interconnect directly.
-8-
Part 3: Project Management
Strengthening 
of the 
Borrower's 
capacity 
to implement 
the 
Project,
encompassing the technical assistance required for: (i) the upgrading and
operation of the CCSPFOG and the CN-TTPPEE to ensure suitable staffing,
dedicated staff for the Project, the provision of office space and equipment and
the financing of Operational Costs required for the purpose; (ii) the carrying out
of the environmental and social studies required by the ESMF, the RPF and the
IPPF and monitoring and capacity building activities under the Project; and (iii)
the fulfillment of the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement for auditing,
monitoring and evaluation, data collection and communication.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The CCSPFOG
(a) 
The Borrower shall lead the overall implementation of the Project
through the CCSPFOG. 
To that end, the Borrower shall maintain
throughout Project implementation the CCSPFOG, at all times under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and with staff and resources
adequate to enable it to carry out its responsibilities under the Project and
shall through the CCSPFOG: (i) provide overall technical and operative
guidance, direction and coordination during Project implementation; and
(ii) carry out the fiduciary and governance oversight of the Project and
the overall responsibility for the compliance of safeguard activities
pursuant to the Borrower's and the, Bank's policies. 
The CCSPFOG
structure shall consist of a Steering Committee and a Project
Coordination Team.
(b) 
The Steering Committee shall be comprised at all times of the Minister
of the MEEDD, the Minister of the MENCP, the Director General of
ANINF, 
and the President of ARCEP, and may include other
representatives as the Borrower and the Bank may agree from time to
time. The Steering Committee shall meet at least once every quarter (or
exceptionally if so required). 
The permanent secretary of the CN-
TIPPEE can be invited as an observer to the Steering Committee's
meetings.
(c) 
The Project Coordination 
Team shall include at all times the
representatives of the institutions in the Steering Committee and from the
MPITPTHTAT and SETRAG. Furthermore, it shall designate one of its
members as the Program focal point to ensure smooth coordination with
the Project Implementation Unit and the Bank, the Program focal point
being appointed also as the secretary of the Steering Committee.
-10-
2. 
The CN-TIPPEE
(a) 
The CN-TIPPEE, acting as the PIU and reporting to the CCSPFOG for
overall guidance, direction and coordination as well as for fiduciary and
governance oversight, shall be vested responsibility for Project fiduciary
management, including procurement, financial management, monitoring
and evaluation, communications and environmental support. To this end,
the Borrower, through the MEEDD, shall: (i) maintain the CN-TIPPEE
throughout Project implementation at all times under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and with staff and resources adequate to enable it
to carry out its responsibilities under the Project; and (ii) deposit into the
CN-TIPPEE's support account in a manner satisfactory to the Bank: (A)
not later than June 30, 2012, an amount of not less than XAF
235,694,379; (B) not later than May 31, 2013, an amount of not less than
XAF 302, 392,773; (C) not later than May 31, 2014, an amount of not
less than XAF 302,392,773; and (D) not later than May 31, 2015, an
amount of not less than XAF 168,353,128.
(b) 
The CN-TIPPEE shall be directed by its permanent secretary and its
composition shall include at a minimum the following key staff: financial
and administration specialist, procurement specialist, and monitoring,
evaluation and environmental specialist. 
The said staff shall work
closely with the MENCP and ANINF as well as with the Program focal
point of the Project Coordination Team.
B. 
ACE Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall take all
action required: (i) to ensure the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to Category (2) are transferred to the ACE Subsidiary in an efficient and timely
manner; and (ii) to have in place a suitable legal framework to ensure the Loan is
used for the intended purposes. 
To that end, the Borrower shall conclude a
contractual arrangement ("ACE Agreement") with the ACE Subsidiary whereby
the Borrower shall:
(a) 
transfer the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category
(2) to the ACE Subsidiary, on a non-reimbursable basis, in consideration
of the undertaking by the ACE Subsidiary that such amount shall be
transferred by the ACE Subsidiary to the ACE Consortium for the
purposes of payment of the membership and participation of the ACE
Subsidiary on behalf of the Borrower in the ACE Consortium;
(b) 
require the ACE Subsidiary: (A) to carry out the infrastructure partially
financed through the Consortium Fee with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental, marine and social standards and practices satisfactory to
the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the ACE ESIA,
the ACE ESMP and the ARAP, the Project Implementation Manual, and
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds
other than the Borrower; and (B) to provide, promptly as needed, the
resources required for the purpose; and
(c) 
obtain rights and specify the ACE Subsidiary obligations adequate to
protect the interests of the Borrower and those of the Bank, including: (i)
subrogation rights against the ACE Consortium upon the failure of the
ACE Consortium, any of the parties thereto, or the Management
Committee established under the C&MA, to perform any of its
obligations under the Construction and Maintenance Agreement; (ii) the
right to suspend or terminate the right of the ACE Subsidiary to use the
proceeds of the Loan or to obtain a repayment of all or any part of the
amount of the Loan then withdrawn, upon the ACE Subsidiary's failure
to perform any of its obligations under the ACE Agreement; (iii) the
ACE Subsidiary's obligation to maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with the
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress of Part 2.1 of the
Project and the achievement of its objectives; (iv) the ACE Subsidiary's
obligation: (A) to maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect
the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part 2.1 of the
Project; and (B) at the Borrower's or the Bank's request, to have such
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited
to the Bank and the Borrower; (v) the right to enable the Borrower and
the Bank to inspect the infrastructure partially financed through the
Consortium Fee, its operation and any relevant records and documents;
and (vi) the ACE Subsidiary's obligation to prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
2. 
The ACE Agreement shall contain provisions whereby the ACE Subsidiary is
obligated to abide by the relevant provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the ACE
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
ACE Agreement or any of their provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
any of the provisions of the ACE Agreement is inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail and govern.
- 12-
C. 
ACE Wholesale Contract
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2012, cause the ACE Subsidiary
to execute a wholesale agreement ("ACE Wholesale Contract"), in form
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the PPP Guidelines, with a
suitable Operator and which shall include subrogation rights for the Borrower
against the Operator party to the ACE Wholesale Contract upon the failure of the
Operator to perform any of its obligations under the ACE Wholesale Contract.
D. 
Backbone Agreement and SPV Wholesale Contract
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project, the Borrower
shall take all action required: (i) to ensure the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (3) are transferred to the SPV in an efficient and
timely manner; and (ii) to have in place a suitable legal framework to ensure the
Loan is used for the intended purposes. To that end, the Borrower shall conclude
a contractual arrangement ("Backbone Agreement") with the SPV whereby the
Bank shall:
(a) 
transfer the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category
(3) to the SPV, on a non-reimbursable basis,. for the purposes of carrying
out Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project;
(b) 
require the SPV: (A) to carry out Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the ESIA, ESMP, RAP and/or the IPP, as the case may be,
the Project Implementation Manual, and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; and
(B) to provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose;
(c) 
obtain rights and specify the SPV's obligations adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and those of the Bank, including: (i)
subrogation rights against the Operator party to the SPV Wholesale
Contract upon the failure of the Operator to perform any of its
obligations under the SPV Wholesale Contract; (ii) the right to suspend
or terminate the right of the SPV to use the proceeds of the Loan or to
obtain a repayment of all or any part of the amount of the Loan then
withdrawn, upon the SPV's failure to perform any of its obligations
under the Backbone Agreement; (iii) the SPV's obligation to maintain
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in
accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress
of Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project and the achievement of its objectives;
- 13 -
(iv) the SPV's obligation: (A) to maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to
Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project; and (B) at the Borrower's or the Bank's
request, to have such financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (v) the right to
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the
Project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (vi)
the SPV's obligation to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the
Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing; and
(d) 
require the SPV to execute a wholesale agreement ("SPV Wholesale
Contract"), in form satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the
PPP Guidelines, with a suitable Operator which shall include subrogation
rights for the SPV against the Operator party to the SPV Wholesale
Contract upon the failure of the Operator to perform any of its
obligations under the SPV Wholesale Contract.
2. 
The Backbone Agreement shall contain provisions whereby the SPV is obligated
to abide by the relevant provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
The
Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Backbone Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Backbone Agreement or any of their provisions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if any of the provisions of the Backbone Agreement is inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail and govern.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-14-
F. 
Safeguards
1. 
ACE Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, ACE Environmental and
Social Management Plan, and Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan
The Borrower shall cause the ACE Subsidiary to take all action necessary on its
behalf:
(i) 
to carry out the ARAP with due diligence and efficiency and at all times
provide the funds necessary therefor; (ii) to adequately monitor and
evaluate the carrying out of the activities provided in the ARAP in the
carrying out of the infrastructure partially financed through the
Consortium Fee; and (iii) to maintain the Borrower and Bank suitably
informed of the progress in the implementation of the ARAP through the
information to be prepared and furnished to the Borrower pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (c)(vi) of Section I.B.1 of this Schedule; and
(ii) 
to carry out the ACE ESIA and the ACE ESMP with due diligence and
efficiency; (ii) to ensure that the relevant mitigation and monitoring
provisions of the ACE ESIA and the ACE ESMP are appropriately
included in the works, goods and services contracts to be concluded for
the infrastructure partially financed through the Consortium Fee and that
they are implemented in the carrying out of said infrastructure; and (iii)
to maintain the Borrower and the Bank suitably informed of the progress
in the implementation of the ACE ESIA and the ACE ESMP through the
information to be prepared and furnished to the Borrower pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (c)(vi) of Section I.B. 1 of this Schedule.
2. 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, Environmental and Social
Management Plan, Resettlement Action Plan and Indigenous Peoples Plan
The Borrower shall cause the SPV to take all action necessary on its behalf:
(i) 
to comply with the ESMF and to carry out the ESIA and the ESMP, as
the case may be, with due diligence and efficiency; (ii) to ensure that the
relevant mitigation and monitoring provisions of the ESIA and the
ESMP, as the case may be, are appropriately included in the works,
goods and services contracts to be concluded under Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of
the Project and that they are implemented in the carrying out of said
Parts 2.2 and 2.3; and (iii) to maintain the Borrower and the Bank
suitably informed of the progress in the implementation of the ESIA and
the ESMP, as the case may be, through the information to be prepared
and furnished to the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
(c)(vi) of Section I.D.1 of this Schedule; and
- 15 -
(ii) 
to comply with the RPF and the IPPF and to carry out the RAP and the
IPP, as the case may be, with due diligence and efficiency and at all
times provide the funds necessary therefor; (ii) to adequately monitor and
evaluate the carrying out of the activities provided in the RAP and in the
IPP, as the case may be, in the carrying out of Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the
Project; and (iii) to maintain the Borrower and the Bank suitably
informed of the progress in the implementation of the RAP and the IPP,
as the case may be, through the information to be prepared and furnished
to the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c)(vi) of Section
I.D.1 of this Schedule.
G. 
Project Implementation Manual
The Borrower shall: (i) take all action required to carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions and requirements set forth or referred to in the
Project Implementation Manual; (ii) submit recommendations to the Bank for its
consideration for changes and updates of the Project Implementation Manual as
they may become necessary or advisable during Project implementation in order
to achieve the objectives of the Project; and (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Project Implementation Manual or any of its provisions without the
Bank's prior agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any of the provisions
of the Project Implementation Manual is inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail and govern.
H. 
Training
For the purposes of the training to be provided under the Project and to be
delivered through study tours and workshops, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, not later than November 30 of each
year, a training program including an explanation of how such training is
consistent and conducive to the objectives of the Project and whether it
offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as the schedule for its
implementation;
(b) 
select the trainees in accordance with a transparent process and criteria
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the results of each training and the benefits to be
derived therefrom.
-16-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and
Evaluation Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, on or about August 31, 2014, a report integrating the results of
the monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
(c) 
review with the Bank, on or about October 31, 2014, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in the preceding paragraph
(b), and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bank's views on the matter.
C. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
-17-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one
(1) month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements, those of the ACE Subsidiary
and those of the SPV, audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover
the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the Borrower, commencing with the Fiscal
Year in which the first withdrawal was made under the Preparation Advance for
the Project. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
4. 
In furtherance of the precedent paragraphs of this Section C, the Borrower shall,
not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, employ the existing
external auditor of the PIU on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for Parts 1, 2.2, 2.3 and 3 of the Project the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for Parts 1, 2.2, 2.3
and 3 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
- 18-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used: (i) National Competitive Bidding, and
(ii) Shopping.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: (i)
Quality-based Selection; (ii) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (iii)
Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (iv) Procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (v) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to: (i) repay the Preparation Advance
-19-
in accordance with Section 2.07 (a) of the General Conditions; and (ii) to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the
Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in 
financed
Category 
USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
8,500,000 
100%
services, consultants' services and
Operational Costs for the Project,
except works and goods under
Parts 2.2 and 2.3 thereof
(2) Consortium Fee under Part 2.1 of
the Project:
(a) Due December 22, 2011 
2,000,000 
44%
(b) Due February 23, 2012 
2,392,179 
64%
(c) Due June 23, 2012 
1,250,000 
100%
(3) 
Goods and works under Parts 2.2 
40,857,821 
100%
and 2.3 of the Project
(4) 
Refund of the Preparation 
3,000,000 
Amount payable
Advance No. P4620-GB 
pursuant to Section
2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
58,000,000
- 20 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account (other than to repay the Preparation Advance)
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,400,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after August 30,
2011, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2); or
(c) 
under Category (2), until and unless:
(i) 
(A) the ACE Subsidiary has been duly created pursuant to PPP
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, registered and made
operational in the Borrower's territory, including through the
appointment of its managers 
and 
the adoption of the
shareholders' agreement and by-laws, all in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) there shall be furnished to the
Bank an opinion satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable
to the Bank showing that the ACE Subsidiary has been duly
created, registered and made operational in the Borrower's
territory and is legally authorized to operate in accordance with
the Borrower's laws;
(ii) 
(A) the ACE Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, has been entered into between the Borrower and the
ACE Subsidiary; and (B) there shall be furnished to the Bank an
opinion satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the
Bank showing that the ACE Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified on behalf of the Borrower and the ACE Subsidiary,
and executed and delivered on their behalf, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower the ACE Subsidiary in accordance with its
terms; and
(iii) 
upon its concurrence, the ACE Consortium has transferred to the
ACE Subsidiary all the rights and obligations of the Borrower in
the Construction and Maintenance Agreement and has fully
substituted the Borrower with the ACE Subsidiary as the
member of the ACE Consortium; or
-21-
(d) 
under Category (3), until and unless:
(i) 
(A) the SPV has been duly created pursuant to PPP Guidelines,
registered and made operational in the Borrower's territory,
including through the appointment of its managers and the
adoption of the shareholders' agreement and by-laws, all in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) there shall be
furnished to the Bank an opinion satisfactory to the Bank of
counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that the SPV has been
duly created, registered and made operational in the Borrower's
territory and is legally authorized to operate in accordance with
the Borrower's laws;
(ii) 
(A) the Backbone Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, has been entered into between the Borrower and the
SPV; and (B) there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank
showing that the Backbone Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified on behalf of the Borrower and the SPV, and executed
and delivered on its behalf, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the SPV in accordance with its terms;
(iii) 
the SPV Wholesale Agreement, in form satisfactory to the Bank
and pursuant to the PPP Guidelines, has been entered into
between the SPV and an Operator acceptable to the Bank and
which shall include subrogation rights for the Borrower against
the Operator party to the SPV Wholesale Contract upon the
failure of the Operator to perform any of its obligations under the
SPV Wholesale Contract; and
(iv) 
the Borrower: (i) shall have adopted the ESIA, ESMP, RAP
and/or the IPP, as the case may be, and the same documents have
been consulted upon and disclosed as approved by the Bank; and
(ii) shall have verified, through its own staff, outside experts, or
existing environmental/social institutions, that the activities
under Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project meet the environmental
and social requirements of appropriate national and local
authorities and that they are consistent with the Bank's
applicable environmental and social assessment and safeguard
policies and comply with the environmental and social review
procedures set forth in the ESMF, RPF and IPPF, as the case
may be, and the Project Implementation Manual.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
- 22 -
ANNEX
to
Schedule 2
PPP Guidelines
The purpose of these PPP Guidelines is to describe the specific arrangements for
implementing the PPP and Open Access model desired by the Recipient authorities in
order to: (i) meet scheduling requirements (in order to select the Operator) as soon as
possible for the establishment of the ACE cable and Libreville-Port Gentil connectivity;
(ii) construct and operate the digital infrastructure which the country needs in order to
support the diversification of its economy; and (iii) achieve the final goals of the Project
within five years (increased geographical coverage of high-bandwidth networks and
lower cost of communication services in Gabon). 
As such, these arrangements shall
serve as a reference for all Project activities.
* 
The concept of "Public-Private Partnership" refers to various possible types of
long-term contractual relationships between the authorities and the private sector,
for the design, execution, operation, maintenance and financing of equipment or
infrastructure and/or the organization of services to the public. Public-Private
Partnerships enable a government to leverage the management skills of private
enterprises, the productivity gains and cost savings which they will achieve, the
innovations which they will provide and the possibility of using private
investments instead of public financing, which can then be used for other
projects.
* 
The concept of "Open Access" refers to access to terrestrial or submarine fiber
optic systems by operators or service providers (holders of a telecommunications
operating license or permit to engage in the provision of telecommunications
infrastructure or services) on non-discriminatory, transparent terms (for pricing
and non-pricing aspects) and cost-based pricing.
* 
Under these guidelines, the "private sector" means any private economic operator
(including those possessing a telecommunications operating license or a permit to
engage in the provision of telecommunications infrastructure or services in
Gabon).
1. A joint stock company under Gabonese law (ad hoc holding company
("HoldCo", the SPV) to be established by the Recipient to be the owner of all
terrestrial and submarine fiber optic infrastructure constructed by the Gabonese
Republic. At the time of its establishment, all shares of HoldCo will be owned
by the Recipient and the principle of offering shares to the private sector and the
principle of Open Access shall be reflected in all relevant official and constituent
documents relating to HoldCo ("HoldCo Corporate Documents").
- 23 -
a. Selection of service providers and consultants for the construction of the
fiber optic infrastructures (excluding Part 2.1 of the Project) financed by
the Loan shall be done in accordance with applicable Bank's policies,
procedures, rules and guidelines concerning procurement, financial
management and anti-corruption measures and environmental and social
safeguards.
b. 
Disbursements in relation to contracts for works relating to the
construction of fiber optic infrastructure (excluding Part 2.1 of the
Project) shall commence as soon as the private infrastructure operator is
in place in accordance with the arrangements described in paragraph 3
below. Subsequent disbursements shall be made in installments at key
stages in the construction to be defined with the Recipient (for example,
completion of civil engineering works, installation of transmission
equipment, etc.). Disbursements shall be based on a detailed certified
statement of expenditure, after confirmation by an independent engineer
that the key construction phase has indeed been reached.
2. 
HoldCo shall establish a wholly-owned subsidiary (the ACE Subsidiary). The
ACE Subsidiary shall be the owner of the ACE submarine cable and of its land
leg and its landing station (assets covered by the Construction and Maintenance
Agreement). Subject to the approval by the ACE Consortium and in accordance
with the C&MA, the Recipient shall transfer its rights and obligations under the
C&MA to the ACE Subsidiary.
a. Since these assets are the ones most likely to attract private sector
investment, all the HoldCo Corporate Documents shall be worded so as
to allow the use of private sector capital whenever this is considered
appropriate by the Recipient in compliance with the principles of Open
Access (for example, if it should prove necessary to resort to private
financing to finance upgrades of international capacity needed to meet
expressed demand in order to avoid artificial rationing of ACE capacity).
b. To this end, the HoldCo Corporate Documents shall include the
following provisions:
i. 
ACE capacity shall be officially attached to shares and
automatically transferred to shareholders when possessing a
valid telecommunications operators license. In the case of
telecommunications operators, acquisition of shares shall result
in acquisition of corresponding capacity, since possession of
capacity becomes an ownership right inseparable from the
right to dividends and the right to vote.
- 24 -
ii. 
The share transfer price shall be fixed by a valuation method
usually adopted by businesses in the ICT sector, such as the
discounted cash flow method, the comparable transactions
method, the market multiples method or a suitable combination
of these methods. The feasibility of converting indefeasible
rights of use ("IRUs") (see below) into shares of the ACE
Subsidiary shall also be analyzed.
iii. 
The principle of prohibiting warehousing of capacity shall be
embodied in all relevant official and constituent documents
relating to the ACE Subsidiary. 
This means that no
shareholder may retain shares and capacity without using such
capacity nor refuse to transfer such capacity (and shares
associated with such capacity) to another shareholder that
would be in a position to use them.
iv. 
HoldCo shall have a "golden share" in the ACE Subsidiary
granting HoldCo specific rights such as the right to a seat on
the board of directors of the ACE Subsidiary, the right not to
have its shares in the ACE Subsidiary diluted and the right to
veto any decisions taken by the ACE Subsidiary that might
undermine the principle of Open Access.
v. 
Use of a precise mathematical valuation formula to calculate
IRU prices with a demand scenario that is both voluntary
(aimed at fully satisfying potential demand) and realistic.
c. 
Disbursements by the Bank in respect of participation in the ACE
Consortium shall be made only after the Recipient has established
HoldCo and the ACE Subsidiary.
3. 
HoldCo and the ACE Subsidiary shall delegate the operation, maintenance and
commercialization of its assets to an Operator with proven experience, selected
by means of an international, open, transparent and non-discriminatory
competitive tender. The Operator shall contribute its technical expertise and a
commercial interest in operating the infrastructure efficiently because it is free to
commercialize the capacity of the backbone network (subject to the provisions of
its license and its agreement). 
Preparation of the tender documentation,
including drafting of the operation, maintenance and commercialization contract
and of the draft license, as well as assistance to the Gabonese Republic in the
negotiations to select the Operator, shall be done through an international firm
financed under the Project.
- 25 -
a. The Operator shall be granted a telecommunications license authorizing
it to engage in the provision of telecommunications infrastructure and
services in the Gabonese Republic. This authorization shall be limited to
wholesale markets for operators and service providers holding a valid
telecommunications license or permit to engage in the provision of
telecommunications infrastructure or services within or outside the
Gabonese Republic.
b. The relationship between the Operator and ANINF or any other entity
duly authorized for the communication requirements of the Gabonese
Republic shall be clearly defined in the operation and commercialization
contract, after the Recipient's authorities have reviewed the various
options available.
c. 
The operation and commercialization 
contract ("ACE Wholesale
Contract") between HoldCo and the Operator shall have a maximum
validity of three years.
d. The ACE Wholesale Contract shall provide a reference offer containing
provisions detailing (including a list of standard speeds), pricing (cost
basis, price revision clause), service levels and quality commitments, co-
location of equipment at the Operator's technical sites, etc., guaranteeing
respect for the principles of Open Access (neutrality, non-discrimination,
transparency). The reference offer should allow a maximum number of
operators and suppliers to access fiber optic infrastructure capacity,
ensuring that they all receive the best possible rates, thanks to a better
fiber filling rate. 
When arrangements are being made concerning
specific terms, the advisability of proposing dark fiber on segments of
the national backbone shall be considered.
e. 
In order to allow for resale to operators and service providers on retail
markets, the Operator shall be required to limit its service offerings to
offerings of capacity. In particular, this precludes managed bandwidth
services such as virtual private networks (VPNs) and provision of
installation and maintenance services.
f. The ACE Wholesale Contract shall also include specific pricing and non-
pricing provisions for transborder interconnection with the Congolese
backbone financed by the Bank in the context of the Third Phase of the
Central African Backbone Program - Republic of Congo Project (Credit
No.4974-CG).
-26-
4. In order to accelerate high-speed Internet access for the benefit of consumers and
businesses in Gabon and to develop transborder traffic (particularly via the
Gabon - Congo interconnection), the Operator shall charge its customers more
attractive prices than the reference offer through purchase of IRUs for bandwith
connectivity, so that customers can formulate business plans and create a virtuous
cycle on retail markets: lower prices -> higher volumes ->lower unit costs for
international connectivity as a result of upgrades -> lower prices, etc.
a. 
Any operator or telecommunications service provider possessing a valid
telecommunications license or permit to provide infrastructure or
services in the Gabonese Republic may acquire IRUs from the Operator
under the Open Access terms.
b. 
Several types of IRU shall be granted by the Operator:
i. 
Packets of STM1/8000 km for the ACE component, or a
slightly greater capacity than a link to Europe (STMI x km is a
unit of measurement for links between landing points of the
ACE cable. It corresponds to transmission at a speed of 1
STMI (155 Mbps) over I km. 
The distance to Penmarch
(France) is 7,208 km, compared with 6,324 to Sesimbra
(Portugal). The additional 8,000 can be used for shorter links
(Abidjan 1,980 km away and Bata 176 km away) for an initial
period of eight years. 
Since the lifetime of the cable is
between 20 and 25 years, the initial duration of the IRU could
be extended automatically if the cable is still being operated
after eight years, provided that additional IRUs are purchased
for a further period, at prices to be determined by a valuation
formula.
ii. 
Packets of STM1/180 km for the Libreville - Port Gentil
component, for an initial period of eight years. 
Since the
lifetime of the cable is between 20 and 25 years, the initial
duration of the IRU could be extended automatically if the
cable is still being operated after eight years, provided that
additional IRUs are purchased for a further period, at prices to
be determined by a valuation formula.
iii. 
Packets of STM1/km to be determined for the other national
backbone segments.
-27-
c. 
All IRU prices (ACE, Libreville - Port Gentil, other national backbone
segments) shall be established by a precise valuation formula ensuring
that they are based on costs and shall be specified in the operation and
commercialization contract. In the case of the ACE component, the IRU
for STMI/8000 kin, the model business plan prepared for the Project
indicates that the IRU price should be less than US$1 million (scenario
2) for the ACE component.
d. The Recipient authorities are establishing a shared local fiber optic
infrastructure for access to national and international connectivity in
order to reduce local access costs (backhaul). Any operator purchasing
IRUs shall nevertheless be able to access the landing station through its
own infrastructure, subject to the statutory arrangements, and to co-
locate its equipment there for access to international connectivity, if so
desired.
5. Since the Project is designed to expand the geographical coverage of high-
capacity bandwidth and to reduce the cost of communication services in the
Gabonese Republic, the operation and commercialization contract drawn up by
the Recipient shall specify a series of key performance indicators (KPIs),
including maximum prices, minimum levels of service quality and of
profitability, on which the Operator shall be required to report publicly each year.
The performance of the Operator in the light of these KPIs shall be analyzed
jointly with the Recipient authorities each year and, if there are problems, the
Recipient and the Bank shall identify possible options for solving them and shall
recommend the solution to be adopted in order to attain the Project goals.
-28-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1, the first installment to be payable on the thirteenth (13th) Interest Payment
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last
installment to be payable on the thirty-sixth (36th) Interest Payment Date following the
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one
shall be equal to one-twenty fourth (1/24) of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment
shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after November 1,
2034, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such
installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency.
- 29 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
"Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan" or "ARAP" means the Borrower's
resettlement and rehabilitation plan dated January 4, 2012, setting forth the
measures necessary to ensure that a Displaced Person (as hereinafter defined) by
the infrastructure partially financed through the Consortium Fee is: (i) informed
about his or her options and rights pertaining to Resettlement; (ii) consulted on,
offered choices among, and provided with technically and economically feasible
resettlement alternatives; (iii) provided: (A) prompt and effective compensation
at full replacement cost for losses of assets attributable directly to the Project; (B)
assistance (such as moving allowances) during relocation; and (C) with
residential housing, or housing sites, or, as required, agricultural sites for which a
combination of productive potential, locational advantages, and other factors is at
least equivalent to the advantages of the old site; (iv) offered support after
displacement, for a transition period, based on a reasonable estimate of the time
likely to be needed to restore his or her livelihood and standards of living; and (v)
provided with development assistance in addition to the aforementioned
compensation measures, such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job
opportunities.
2. 
"ACE Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2
to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan available to the ACE Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) for
the purposes of carrying the infrastructure partially financed through the
Consortium Fee (as hereinafter defined).
3. 
"ACE Consortium" means the Africa Coast to Europe telecommunications
undersea cable consortium created for international connectivity to connect South
Africa to Europe through a submarine cable system of approximately 17,000 km,
and which will potentially connect up to twenty-three countries, either directly
for coastal countries or indirectly through terrestrial links for landlocked
countries.
4. 
"ACE Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ACE ESIA" means the
Borrower's report dated January 4, 2012, identifying and assessing the potential
environmental and social impacts of the infrastructure partially financed through
the Consortium Fee (as hereinafter defined), evaluating alternatives, and
designing appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring measures, and
including the actions needed to implement these measures.
5. 
"ACE Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ACE ESMP" means the
Borrower's environmental and social management plan dated January 4, 2012,
setting forth a set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be
-30-
taken during the implementation and operation of the infrastructure partially
financed through the Consortium Fee (as hereinafter defined) to eliminate
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels, and including the actions needed to implement these measures.
6. 
"ACE Subsidiary" means the company subsidiary to the SPV (as hereinafter
defined) to be established by the Borrower for the purposes of transferring to
such subsidiary all its rights and obligations in the ACE Consortium and be
substituted as the member in the ACE Consortium.
7. 
"ACE Subsidiary Legislation" means, collectively, the laws, any implementation
decree, resolutions and/or decisions of the Borrower that have been adopted and
approved for the purposes of creating, registering and making the ACE
Subsidiary operational, and the ACE Subsidiary's articles of incorporation, by-
laws and charter.
8. 
"ACE Wholesale Contract" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to be entered into between the ACE Subsidiary and
the Operator (as hereinafter defined), acceptable to the Bank, for the operation,
maintenance and commercialization of bandwidth on the ACE Consortium, on a
wholesale basis, to licensed operators in the Borrower's territory and in third
countries.
9. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
10. 
"ANINF" means the Borrower's National Agency for Digital Infrastructure and
Frequencies ("Agence Nationale des Infrastructures Numiriques et des
Friquences"), the agency responsible for the installation and management of the
infrastructure and national resources shared telecommunications, audiovisual and
infornatics, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No.
0212 dated January 27, 2011, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
11. 
"ARCEP" 
means the Borrower's Posts and Electronic Communications
Regulatory Agency ("Agence de Rfgulation des Communications Electroniques
et des Poste"), the agency responsible for the good functioning of the
telecommunications sector, established and operating pursuant to the Order of the
Borrower's President No. 0000008/PR/2012 dated February 13, 2012, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
12. 
"Backbone Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan available to the SPV (as hereinafter defined)
for the purposes of carrying out Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project.
-31 -
13. 
"Carrier 
Hotel" means a secure physical site or building where data
communications media converge and are interconnected, allowing multiple
customers to locate network, server, and storage gear with a minimum of cost
and complexity.
14. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
15. 
"CCSPFOG" means the Borrower's Fiber Optic Commission ("Commission
chargie du suivi des projets de fibre optique au Gabon") to be established and
made operational pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement.
16. 
"CCSPFOG Legislation" means, collectively, the ministerial resolutions and/or
decisions of the Borrower that have been adopted and approved for the purposes
of establishing and making the CCSPFOG operational, and the CCSPFOG's
rules and charter.
17. 
"CEMAC" means the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa
(Communauti Economique et Monitaire de l'Aftique Centrale).
18. 
"CN-TIPPEE" means the Borrower's National Commission - Labor Intensive
Small-Scale Public Infrastructure Works ("Commission Nationale - Travaux
d'Intr6t Public pour la Promotion de l'Entreprenariat et de l'Emploi "),
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ministerial Decision
(Arrete) No. 00007/PRIMPPD dated January 4, 2006, and responsible for
carrying out projects which are in the public interest on behalf of all
stakeholders (the 
government, 
regional 
and 
local 
administrations, 
non-
governmental organizations or donors) with a view to implement best practices
and sound governance.
19. 
"Consortium Fee" means the expenditures incurred by the Borrower to secure its
membership and participation, through the ACE Subsidiary in the ACE
Consortium, which Consortium Fee is hereby deemed an Eligible Expenditure
for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions.
20. 
"Construction and Maintenance Agreement" and "C&MA" mean the agreement
dated June 5, 2010, entered into by and among the Borrower and the other parties
to the ACE Consortium.
21. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
-32-
22. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who as a result of: (i) the involuntary taking
of land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (A) relocation
or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to
another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood.
23. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means a site-specific
report, to be prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the parameters laid
down in the ESMF (as hereinafter defined) and acceptable to the Bank,
identifying and assessing the potential environmental and social impacts of the
activities to be undertaken for the activities under Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project,
evaluating alternatives, and designing appropriate mitigation, management, and
monitoring measures, and including the actions needed to implement these
measures.
24. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
environmental and social safeguard framework adopted by the Borrower on
January 31, 2012, setting forth the procedures to be used for the preparation and
approval of a site-specific Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and/or
Environmental and Social Management Plan (as hereinafter defined) for any site
where there exists environmental and/or social issues of a type and scale
sufficient to trigger the Bank's safeguard policies.
25. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a site-specific
environmental and social management plan to be prepared by the Borrower in
accordance with the parameters laid down in the ESMF (as hereinafter defined)
and acceptable to the Bank, setting forth a set of mitigation, monitoring, and
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the
activities under Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project to eliminate adverse
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels, and including the actions needed to implement these measures.
26. 
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the
Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on
December 31 in each calendar year.
27. 
".ga" means the top-level domain name for the Gabonese Republic according to
the Root Zone Database of the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority.
28. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
29. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means, a distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group in
the Borrower's territory possessing the following characteristics in varying
degrees: (i) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group
- 33 -
and recognition of this identity by others; (ii) collective attachment to
geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to
the natural resources in these habitats and territories; (iii) customary cultural,
economic, social, or political institutions that are separate from those of the
dominant society and culture; and (iv) an indigenous language, often different
from the official language of the Borrower or region.
30. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means a plan to be prepared by the Borrower
in accordance with the parameters laid down in the IPPF (as hereinafter defined)
and acceptable to the Bank and developed on the basis of a social assessment and
in consultation with the affected Indigenous Peoples' communities present in, or
that have a collective attachment to the Project area, setting out the measures
through which the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) Indigenous Peoples affected by
the Project receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits; and (ii)
when potential adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples are identified, those
adverse effects are avoided, minimized, mitigated, or compensated for.
31. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" and "IPPF" means the framework
adopted by the Borrower on January 31, 2012, setting forth: (i) the types of
activities likely to be proposed for financing under Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the
Project; (ii) the potential positive and adverse effects of such activities on the
Indigenous Peoples; (iii) a plan for the carrying out of the social assessment for
such activities; (iv) a framework for ensuring free, prior, and informed
consultation with the affected Indigenous Peoples' communities at each stage of
Project preparation and implementation; (v) institutional arrangements (including
capacity building where necessary) for screening Project-supported activities,
evaluating their effects on Indigenous Peoples, preparing IPPs, and addressing
any grievances; 
(vi) monitoring and 
reporting arrangements, 
including
mechanisms and benchmarks appropriate to the Project; and (vii) disclosure
arrangements for IPPs to be prepared under the IPPF.
32. 
"ICT" means information and communication technology.
33. 
"Internet" means the network of networks that consists of millions of private,
public, academic, business, and government networks, of local to global scope,
that are linked by a broad array of electronic, wireless and optical networking
technologies.
34. 
"Internet Exchange Point" or "IXP" means a physical infrastructure through
which Internet Service Providers (as hereinafter defined) and telecommunications
operators exchange Internet traffic between their networks, allowing networks to
interconnect directly, via the exchange, rather than through one or more third-
party networks.
-34-
35. 
"ISP" or "Internet Service Provider" means an organization that provides access
to the Internet.
36. 
"MENCP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Digital Economy, Communication,
and Post ("Minist&re de de l'Economie Num6rique, de la Communication, et de
la Poste ") or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
37. 
"MEEDD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Employment, and
Sustainable Development ("Minist re de l'Economie, de l'Emploi, et du
Diveloppement Durable ") or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
38. 
"MPITPTHTAT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Investment Promotion,
Public Works, Transport, Housing, and Tourism, and Responsible for Territorial
Planning ("Ministare de la Promotion des Investissements, des Travaux Publics,
des Transports, de 1'Habitat et du Tourisme, chargg de 1'Aminagement du
Territoire ") or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
39. 
"Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators" means the agreed monitoring and
evaluation indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual (as
hereinafter defined) to be utilized by the Borrower, the ACE Subsidiary and the
SPV (as hereinafter defined) to measure the progress in the implementation of the
Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved.
40. 
"Open Access" means access to terrestrial or submarine fiber optic systems by
operators or service providers (holders of a telecommunications operating license
or permit to engage in the provision of telecommunications infrastructure or
services) on non-discriminatory, transparent terms (for pricing and non-pricing
aspects) and cost-based pricing.
41. 
"Operational Costs" means the expenditures incurred by the Borrower to finance:
(i) the salaries of the staff of the CCSPFOG and the CN-TIPPEE (excluding civil
servants) and state contributions thereon; (ii) per diem and travel expenses of the
said staff to perform their responsibilities under the Project; (iii) fuel and vehicle
maintenance and insurance; (iv) communication technology (including, without
limitation, internet and telephone); (v) building security and maintenance; (vi)
translation services, photocopies and publications; (vii) bank commissions; and
(viii) utilities and office supplies, and which shall have been previously approved
by the Bank for parallel financing under the Project.
42. 
"Operator" means an independent and experienced private entity which: (i)
provides bandwidth at wholesale prices to other retail structures (fixed operators,
mobile operators and ISPs) and the Recipient, as the case may be; and (ii) is the
same party to both the ACE Wholesale Contract and the SPV Wholesale Contract
(as hereinafter defined).
-35-
43. 
"PPP" means public-public partnership, that is, the contractual, governance and
financing arrangements between a government agency and one or more private
sector entities participating in the ACE Subsidiary and/or the SPV.
44. 
"PPP Guidelines" means the agreed-upon guidelines to be followed by the
Recipient for the purpose of implementing the PPP and Open Access model
under the Project and set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
45. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the
General Conditions and refers to the advance No. P4620-GB, granted by the
Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the
Bank on April 22, 2011 and on behalf of the Borrower on May 9, 2011.
46. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
47. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 13, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
48. 
"Project Coordination Team" means the Borrower's Direction de projet, and
referred to in paragraphs 1 (a) and (c) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
49. 
"Project Implementation Unit" and "PIU" means the CN-TIPPEE.
50. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Borrower's set of guidelines and
procedures to be adopted by the Borrower for the purpose of implementing the
Project, including in the areas of monitoring and evaluation, coordination,
financial management (including financial, administrative and accounting
procedures, procurement, internal controls and audits), environment and social
safeguards, and other provisions related to the institutional organization of the
Project, as such guidelines and procedures may be amended from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
51. 
"Resettlement" means: (i) the involuntary (i.e., an action that may be taken
without a person's informed consent or power of choice) taking of land,
including anything growing on or permanently affixed to such land, such as
buildings and crops, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of
assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood,
whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (ii) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the affected persons, and
- 36 -
encompassing restrictions on the use of resources imposed on people living
outside a park or protected area, or on those who continue living inside the park
or protected area during and after Project implementation.
52. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a site-specific resettlement and
rehabilitation action plan to be prepared in accordance with the parameters laid
down in the RPF (as hereinafter defined), acceptable to the Bank, and to be
developed by the Borrower for the Displaced Persons in each site under Parts 2.2
and 2.3 of the Project which involves Resettlement, and covering the following:
(i) a baseline 
census and socioeconomic 
survey information; 
specific
compensation rates and standards; policy entitlements related to any additional
impacts identified through the census or survey; description of Resettlement sites
and programs for improvement or restoration of livelihoods and standards of
living; an implementation schedule for Resettlement activities; and detailed cost
estimate; (ii) measures designed to ensure that the Displaced Persons: (A) are
informed about their options and rights pertaining to Resettlement, consulted on,
offered choices among, and provided with technically and economically feasible
Resettlement alternatives; and (B) provided prompt and effective compensation
at full replacement cost for losses of assets attributable directly to the Project;
(iii) if the impacts include physical relocation, that the displaced persons are: (A)
provided assistance (such as moving allowances) during relocation; (B) provided
with residential housing, or housing sites, or, as required, agricultural sites for
which a combination of productive potential, locational advantages, and other
factors is at least equivalent to the advantages of the old site; and (C) offered
support after displacement, for a transition period, based on a reasonable estimate
of the time likely to be needed to restore their livelihood and standards of living;
(iv) affordable and accessible grievance procedures, taking into account the
availability ofjudicial recourse and community and traditional dispute settlement
mechanisms; and (v) provided with development assistance in addition to
compensation measures, such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job
opportunities.
53. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy
framework adopted by the Borrower on January 31, 2012, setting forth, inter
alia, a description of the Project and components for which land acquisition and
Resettlement are required, the principles and objectives governing Resettlement
preparation and implementation, and a description of the process for preparing
and approving a site-specific Resettlement Action Plan.
54. 
"SETRAG" means the Gabonese Railway Company ("Socidtd d'Exploitation du
Transgabonais ").
55. 
"Special Purpose Vehicle Company" and "SPV" means the special purpose
vehicle company to be established by the Borrower for the purposes of carrying
out Parts 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project.
-37-
56. 
"SPV Legislation" means, collectively, the laws, any implementation decree,
resolutions and/or decisions of the Borrower that have been adopted and
approved for the purposes of creating, registering and making the SPV
operational, and the SPV's articles of incorporation, by-laws and charter.
57. 
"SPV Wholesale Contract" means the agreement referred to in Section I.D.1 (d)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to be entered into between the SPV and the
Operator, acceptable to the Bank, for the operation, maintenance 
and
commercialization of bandwidth on the national backbone, on a wholesale basis,
to licensed operators in the Borrower's territory and in third countries.
58. 
"Steering Committee" means the Borrower's Comit de Pilotage, and referred to
in paragraphs 1 (a) and (b) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
59. 
"XAF" meais the Central African CFA franc, the currency of the Borrower and
the following states in Central Africa: Republic of Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Republic of Chad, Republic of the Congo, and the Republic of
Equatorial Guinea.
