OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTI
LOAN NUMBER 8182-MA
Loan Agreement
(Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
LL 
e 
, 2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
wu 
q 
t 
, 2012, between KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of Euro thirty seven million nine
hundred thousand (EUR 37,900,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread ;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread te a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower ard the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementinig Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
-3-
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
finalized and adopted by the Borrower and the Project Implementing
Entity.
(c) 
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence that the Project
Implementing Entity has established the PCG Account referred to in
Section I.G. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) 
The Project Implementing Entity has established the ESSU in a form and
with functions, staffing, and resources satisfactory to the Bank, and the
ESSU is operational.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
MINFIN 
212-537-67-75-32
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
INGDOMOMOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
Name: tji-X-n 
Tnael
Title: ni ,m1 re*e 
4, 
4-u
aznct F;imama
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
& n
Title: 
a rr&fli 
( 
/ g) 7
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to finance for micro, small and
medium enterprises in the Kingdom of Morocco.
The Project consists of the following part:
1. 
Support for the issuance of Partial Credit Guarantees
Support for the provision of PCGs by the Project Implementing Entity to EFIs to
enable Sub-loans by EFIs to Eligible MSMEs for the carrying out of Sub-projects.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project through its PIU and ESSU in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual, the Project Agreement and the ESMF and shall ensure that the Project
Implementing Entity does not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any
provision of the Project Operations Manual, Project Agreement and ESMF,
without prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
To assist the Project Implementing Entity in its performance of the fiduciary
functions, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain
the PIU and ESSU in a form and with functions, staffing and resources
satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
equivalent of the proceed3 of the Loan available to the Project Implementing
Entity under the Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which
shall include the following:
(a) 
The amounts of the Loan made available to the Project Implementing
Entity for the issuance of PCGs shall be based on the Periodic Budgets
provided by the Project Implementing Entity to MOEF, following the
Borrower's review and in accordance with the criteria and procedures set
forth in the Project Operations Manual.
(b) 
All amounts made available to the Project Implementing Entity by the
Borrower shall be paid into the PCG Account and shall be administered
in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to the Schedule to the
Project Agreement and the provisions of the Project Operations Manual.
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Project Operations Manual.
-7-
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
PCG Issuance
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to issue PCGs to EFIs
for Sub-loans to Eligible MSMEs in accordance with the procedures set forth in
the Project Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure the Project is
carried out in accordance with the ESMF and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive any provision of the ESMF without prior approval of the Bank.
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that
adequate information on the implementation of the ESMF is included in the
Project Reports referred to in Section II.A. of this Schedule.
2. 
The following Sub-projects shall not be eligible for PCGs under the Project, as
further set forth in the Project Operations Manual and ESMF:
(a) 
any Sub-projects falling within the items listed as excluded in the Project
Operations Manual (including sectors listed as excluded sectors therein),
the ESMF, and the Exclusion List;
(b) 
any Sub-projects affecting international waterways, natural habitats,
disputed areas or indigenous peoples or involving the conversion or
degradation of forest areas or the construction and rehabilitation of dams;
(c) 
any Sub-projects involving the involuntary taking of land resulting in
relocation or loss of shelter, loss of assets or access to assets, loss of
income sources or means of livelihood, or involving the involuntary
restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas; or
(d) 
any Sub-projects likely to have significant adverse environmental
impacts 
that are 
sensitive, 
potentially 
irreversible, 
diverse, 
or
-8-
unprecedented, that would be classified as 'Category A' in accordance
with the Bank's policies and procedures.
F. 
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank no later than thirty (30) months after the
Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project
implementation, as measured against the performance indicators referred
to in Section II.A. 1 (a) of this Schedule. Such review shall include an
assessment 
of the 
following: 
(i) 
overall 
progress 
in 
Project
implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities;
(iii) progress on inplementation of Periodic Budgets; (iv) progress on
disbursement; (v) progress on implementation of measures set forth in
the ESMF and compliance with such measures; (vi) implementation
arrangements; (vii) the need to make any adjustments to the Project; and
(viii) in the event that it looks likely that any balance of the Committed
Amount will remain in the PCG Account at the Closing Date, discuss
and evaluate the options set forth in Section I.G of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and Part B of the Annex to the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, including the need for adequate oversight arrangements.
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, at least four (4) months before such
review, a report, i-I scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, needed to
undertake the reN iew, integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such
date; and
(c) 
review, jointly with the Bank, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective
thereof, including future use of Loan funds, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
-9-
G. 
PCG Account
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to open and maintain
the PCG Account in the PCG Account Bank on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment, in which the Loan proceeds shall be held separate from any other
accounts or assets of the Project Implementing Entity. 
The Borrower shall
ensure, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure, that deposits
into and payments out of the PCG Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
In the event that any balance of the Committed Amount remains in the PCG
Account as of the Closing Date, then the Borrower and the Bank shall consult
and reach agreement in writing on any such use of the funds remaining in the
PCG Account by no later than the date which is six (6) months prior to the
Closing Date:
(a) 
The Borrower and the Bank shall agree in writing prior to the Closing
Date that such balance shall either:
(i) 
be retained by the Project Implementing Entity during the
remaining period of any PCG for which any portion of the
Committed Amount remains in the PCG Account, subject to
such provisions and oversight arrangements as agreed in
writing between the Project Implementing Entity, the
Borrower and the Bank; or
(ii) 
be used by the Project Implementing Entity for purposes
agreed with the Bank that meet the requirements of the Loan
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the Annex
to the Schedule to the Project Agreement. The decision will
be made subject to Bank policy in effect at the time of
Project closing and is expected to require the determination
by the Bank that: (A) the expenditure be productive (used for
the objective of the Project); (B) the operation's impact on
the Project Implementing Entity's fiscal sustainability is
acceptable to the Bank; and (C) oversight arrangements,
including fiduciary oversight, remain acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
in the event that the Borrower and the Bank are unable to reach
agreement in writing before the Closing Date, then the balance remaining
in the PCG Account as of the Closing Date shall be refunded by the
Project Implementing Entity to the Borrower to be refunded to the Bank.
- 10 -
3. 
(a) 
In the event that any balance of the Committed Amount remains in the
PCG Account as of the Closing Date, the Project Implementing Entity
shall ensure that such funds are managed, used and reported to the Bank
after the Closing Date exclusively in accordance with such provisions
and oversight arrangements as agreed in writing between the Project
Implementing Entity, the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) 
During such period after the Closing Date and for so long as a balance
remains in the PCG Account, in the event that the Bank has determined
that any amount i.,i the PCG Account has not been used in accordance
with the Loan Agreement or the Project Agreement, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, declare all or part of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance as at the (late of such notice to be due and payable immediately
together with any other Loan Payments due under the Loan Agreement.
Upon any such declaration, such Withdrawn Loan Balance and Loan
Payments shall become immediately due and payable and require an
immediate refund of the amount remaining in the PCG Account.
(c) 
The provisions of this sub-paragraph 3 shall survive the Closing Date of
the Loan Agreement and shall not be limited by Section 9.05 of the
General Conditions.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project Implementing Entity prepares interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, and the Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity
- 11 -
furnishes such reports to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of each calendar semester.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in EUR) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) PCG Claims under the 
37,805,250 
100% of amounts disbursed
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
94,750 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
37,900,000
- 12 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed Euro 7,580,000 equivalent
may be made for PCG ClaIms under PCGs issued prior to this date but paid on or
after July 1, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15 
2.22%
Beginning May15, 2019
through November 15, 2040
On May 15, 2041 
2.32%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
- 14 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Lc an withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of su.h sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 15-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Committed Amount" means the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category 1 in
the table in Section III.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and withdrawn from
time to time and deposited into the PCG Account fully in compliance with the
requirements set out in Section I. G of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Project
Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
4. 
"EFI" means a regulated financial institution established and operating within the
Kingdom of Morocco, which meets the eligibility criteria outlined in the Project
Agreement, and the Project Operations Manual.
5. 
"EFI Framework Agreement" means a framework agreement between the Project
Implementing Entity and an EFI, acceptable to the Bank, pursuant to which PCG
Instruments are issued.
6. 
"Eligible MSME" means micro, small and medium enterprises, established and
operating within the Project Area, which meet the eligibility criteria outlined in
the Project Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
7. 
"ESMF" means Environmental and Social Management Framework, the
framework document prepared for the Project, dated May 4, 2012, setting forth
the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse
environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank, and setting forth policies
and procedures for environmental screening.
8. 
"ESSU" means the environmental and social screening unit of the Project
Implementing Entity referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
tasked with environmental and social screening of Sub-projects in accordance
with the provisions of the ESMF and the Project Operations Manual.
- 16 -
9. 
"Exclusion List" means the list of items ineligible for support under the Project
according to the International Finance Corporation's exclusion list in effect from
time to time, as further set forth in the Project Operations Manual and ESMF.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
11. 
"Ministry of Economy and Finance" or "MOEF" means the Ministry of
Economy and Finance of the Kingdom of Morocco or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Moroccan Dirham" means the currency of the Borrower.
13. 
"PCG" means a partial credit guarantee issued by the Project Implementing
Entity to an EFI for the purpose of enabling a Sub-loan, in accordance with the
criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Agreement and the Project
Operations Manual.
14. 
"PCG Account" means the account to be established by the Project Implementing
Entity at the PCG Account Bank, referred to in Section I.G. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Annex to the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which must
at all times be satisfactory to the Bank, into which the Project Implementing
Entity shall receive the proceeds of the Loan provided to the Project
Implementing Entity through the Subsidiary Agreement for PCGs, separate from
the Project Implementing Entity's ordinary operations accounts or the accounts
from which it makes guarantees that are not supported under the Project.
15. 
"PCG Account Bank" means a financial institution, satisfactory to the Borrower,
the Project Implementing Entity and the Bank, at which the Project Implementing
Entity shall establish and maintain the PCG Account in accordance with Section
I.G of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Annex to the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
16. 
"PCG Instrument" means a guarantee instrument evidencing a PCG issued by the
Project Implementing Entity to an EFI on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Project Operations Manual, under the umbrella of an EFI Framework Agreement.
17. 
"PCG Claim" means a claim under a PCG made by an EFI under its PCG
Instrument and its applicable EFI Framework Agreement, received, assessed as
eligible and processed by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the
provisions and criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
18. 
"Periodic Budget" mean; a periodic budget prepared in accordance with
requirements set forth in the Project Operations Manual by the Project
Implementing Entity annually, or at such other intervals as set forth in the Project
- 17-
Operations Manual, showing forecast PCG Claims based on PCGs issued, and
processed PCG Claims, and such other information as the Borrower and the Bank
shall request from time to time.
19. 
"PIU" means the Project Implementing Entity's staff team designated by the
Project Implementing Entity to be responsible for Project implementation and
referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"Project Area" means the area in which Project activities will be carried out in
the Borrower's regions of Tanger-Tetouan, Taza-Al-Hoceima-Tatounate, Fez-
Boulmane, 
Meknes-Tafilalt, 
Tadla-Azilal, 
Doukkala-Abda, 
Rabat-Sale-
Zemmour-Zadr, Casablanca, Oriental, Marrakech-Tensift-El Haouz, Chaouia-
Ourdigha, 
Gharb-Chrarda-Beni 
Hsen, 
and 
Souss-Massa-Drad, 
and 
the
Borrower's provinces of Guelmin, Assa- Zag, Tantan and Tata.
21. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Caisse Centrale de Garantie (CCG), a
public institution established and operating under the Project Implementing
Entity's Legislation.
22. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Law Number
47-95, promulgated by Royal Decree Number 1-96-107 of August 7, 1996, as
amended to the date of this Agreement, pursuant to which the Project
Implementing Entity is established and operating.
23. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the operations manual to be adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity and the Borrower, and referred to in Section I.A. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, describing and setting
forth 
procedures 
for implementation 
of the 
Project 
and 
institutional
arrangements, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and the Project
Agreement and with applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower and
including, among other things, the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects
and procedures for implementation of the Project, including the financial
management 
procedures 
(budgeting, 
accounting 
and 
internal 
control,
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and
external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of
accounts), environmental screening, , monitoring and evaluation arrangements,
other fiduciary and administrative arrangements, the selection methods and/or
eligibility criteria for EFIs, Eligible MSMEs, Sub-loans and PCGs, and
procedures, transaction, control, and clearance processes and the implementation
mechanisms and necessary terms of reference for PCGs (including terms and
conditions, structuring, pricing, issuance and monitoring of PCGs, and
processing of PCG Claims), Sub-Loans and Sub-projects, templates of Sub-loan
Agreements and PCG Instruments, processes on the establishment and operation
- 18 -
of the PCG Account, and including the ESMF, as the same may be amended
from time to time by agree ment with the Bank.
24. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
25. 
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by an EFI benefiting from
a PCG to an Eligible MSME in accordance with the criteria and procedures set
forth in the Project Agreement and the Project Operations Manual, for the
purpose of financing a Sub-project.
26. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement entered into between a EFI
benefiting from a PCG and an Eligible MSME on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Project Agreement and the Project Operations Manual for the purpose
of financing a Sub-loan.
27. 
"Sub-project" means econDmic activities carried out within the Project Area by
an Eligible MSME selected as eligible and and funded from a Sub-loan supported
by a PCG, in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Project
Operations Manual.
