OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8198-UY
Loan Agreement
(Support to Uruguayan Public Schools Project)
between
REPfBLI CA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 11, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Decerr ber 11, 2012, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL
URUGUAY ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GINERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
101. 
The General Conditior s (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1 02. 
Unless the context require3 otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the me inings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agieement.
kRTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank ag:ees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agree.nent, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000),
as such amount may 'e converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in 'mancing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may wi:hdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-erd Fee payable ty the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.)4. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Ratc for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest pa,yable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amouni shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be -alculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule sot forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The 3orrower n ay a: any time request any of the following Conversions
of th- terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of he Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding frori a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion o: the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding froin a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Sp -ead, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withd -awn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any porti)n of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guiclelines.
ARTICLE HI -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrow-r declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shal cau3e the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions,
the Operatio-al Manual and :he Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as th- Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Projec: is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreoment.
ARTICLE IV -- REMEDIES OF THE BANK
01. 
The Additional Event cf Suspension consists of the following, namely that, the
Law No. 18.437 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to materially
and adversely affect, n the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Project
-2-
Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
4,02. 
The Additioral Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that, any
event specified in Sectio 1 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5 01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that,
the Inter-Adrinistrative Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
5 02. 
The Additional Legal Mitters consist of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, indicate
that the Inter-Administrative Agreement, has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and ,xecuted and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
legally binding apon the Borrower in accordance with the terms of the
Inter-Administr, tive Agreement.
(b) 
the Project Imp eme iting Entity, through a legal opinion satisfactory to
the Bank, indicate that the Inter-Administrative Agreement, has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Project Imp eme.iting Entity and is legally binding upon the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the terms of the Inter-
Adn inistrative Agreement.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to thc provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eigh:een (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on March 27, 2314.
ARTICLE VI -- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Represcntative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Addres:; is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Colonia No. 1089, Piso 3
Montevideo, Uruguay
Facsimile: 5982 1712 2688
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
-3-
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2043"
United States of Americ i
Cable address: 
TeleX: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Montevideo, Uruguay as of the day and year first above written.
REPOBLICA ORIENTAL D L URU UAY
By
A 
ed Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
T 
l-biv
Authorized 
epresentative
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Pro)ject Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality, equity and internal
efficiency of primary education, through the expansion of the Full-Time School model.
The Project consists of tie following parts:
Part 1: Expansion and Rehabi itation of School Infrastructure
1. 
Expansion of the Full-Time School model through: (a) the construction,
transformation and/or rehabilitation of approximately (40) schools
localed primarily in disadvantaged locations and selected in accordance
with the criter a sct forth in the Operational Manual; and (b) the
acquisition of -quipment and education materials for the Full-Time
Schools mentioned in (a) herein.
2. 
Carrying out of preventive and corrective maintenance activities in Full-
Time Schools.
Part 2: Strengtheni ag of Learning Systems (In-service Training)
1. 
Pros ision of support for the institutionalization of in-service training for
pre-school and primary school teachers through the provision of
tech.aical assistince to assist the Project Implementing Entity in the
establishment (of ar entity within CEIP to provide, inter alia, said
training, including, iiter alia: (a) the provision of technical assistance for
the design and implementation of in-service training activities; and (b)
the carrying ou. of remodeling activities of CEIP facilities to permit the
operation of the entity mentioned herein, including the acquisition of
equipment for such entity.
2. 
Provision of ii-service training for pre-school and primary school
teaciers of Ful -Time Schools and APRENDER Schools through, inter
alia (a) the cevelopment and implementation of in-service training
couises for teachers; (b) the development and implementation of training
courses for trainers providing the courses mentioned in (a) herein; and
(c) the acquisiti n of goods required therefor.
-5-
Part 3: Monitoring Evaluatio.i and Project Mana2ement
1. 
Provision of technial assistance to: (a) manage and coordinate the
execution of the Project; and (b) monitor and evaluate the Project.
2. 
Carrying out o:' studies on education policy (under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank), including, inter alia: (a) impact evaluation
stud es on the -xpasion of the Full-Time School model; (b) a tracer
study of Full-Time School graduates; (c) studies on causes of grade
repetition and low sc-hool attendance among young students; and (d) an
analysis on the use of existing school-based information in order to
establish an early warning system for students at risk of grade failure.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementatioit Arrangements
A. 
Inter-Administrative Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrling out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the .oan available to the Project Implementing Entity, under
a subsidiary 
agreement between the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Eritity. under terms and conditions approved by the Bank
(the "Inter-Adin nistrative Agreement").
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
the Inter-Admir istrative Agreement in such manner as to protect the
intere-sts of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan. Exce?t as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, arr end, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Inter-
Administrative Agreement or any of its provisions.
1. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-C :rruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Enviroamental and Social Management Framework.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring., Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management sytem in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Cor ditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audi: of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year
of tf.e Borrower. Th- audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnish,d to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end
of such period.
-7-
Section I. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants' services required for the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured 
in 
accordance
with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Wit [idrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower -ay withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section,
and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower (incliding the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
Proj -cts" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and
as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligiblo Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that
may be financ,d oit of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the
allocation of t6e amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in
each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Cate2ory 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works for Parts 1.1, 
27,609,132 
100%
2 and 3 of the Project
(2) Goods for Parts 1.1, 
3,580,000 
100%
2 and 3 of the Project
(3) Training for Paits
.1, 2 and 3 of the 
3,218,860 
100%
Project
-8-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Cate2ory 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(4) Consultants'
services and Operating 
5,492,008 
100%
Costs for Parts 1.1, 2
and 3 of the Project
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 
2.03 
of this
(5) Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Condition;; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal
shall be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement,
exce)t that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed eight
million Dollars ($8,000,000) equivalent may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after August 1, 2012 (but in no case more than
one (1) year .rior to the date of this Agreement), for Eligible
Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Dale is May 31, 2017.
Section V. 
Other Undertaing;
I he Borrower shall take all n:c,-ssary actions to enable the Project Implementing Entity
to comply with its obligations under the Project Agreement.
-9-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forih the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total )rincipal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Dale ("Installnient Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Bo:rower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment D ite 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and Augt st 15
Beginning on February 15, 2028
through August 15, 2032 
9.09%
On February 15, 2033 
9.10%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the prin:ipal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedulc.
(b), 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
wit drawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Ins allment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denon.inator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment ShE res for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amo ints -epayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amc unts referrt d to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion apr lies.
-10-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Eate shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amour ts pEyable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withlrawn and outAtanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the late of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Paymcnt Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following ihe date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time thc Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are is sued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals male af:er the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Prin-ipal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be detern,ined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank undei the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, tie exchang rate component of the Screen Rate.
-11-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidolines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dat0d October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"APRENDE R Schools" means a preschool/primary school in the territory of the
Borrower which benefits from extra support from ANEP, such as training, and
materials and are listed in the Borrower's Circular No. 453 of November 29,
2010.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"CEIP" means the Prcject Implementing Entity's primary education council
(Consejo de de Educaci5n Inicial y Primaria).
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated Janua y 2C 11.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the Borrower's
framework, dated June 15, 2012 and July 23, 2012, acceptable to the Bank,
published in the Project Implementing Entity's website on June 15, 2012 and
July 23, 2012, and included in the Operational Manual, which sets forth, inter
alia: (a) the applicabk institutional and regulatory environmental framework
governing 
the 
Project; 
(b) 
the 
guidelines 
for 
carrying 
out 
the
environmental/social screenings/assessments for the carrying out of Project
activities; and (c) the piocedures to mitigate, prevent and manage environmental
and social impacts associated with the carrying out of Project activities, as said
framework may be amcnded from time to time with the prior agreement of the
Bank.
7i. 
"Full-Time School" moans a preschool/primary school in the territory of the
Borrower that operates n seven and a half hour shifts on a daily basis; and "Full-
Time Schoo s" means a iy Full-Time School.
F. 
"General Conditions" neaLs the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Developmer.t General C onditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
-12-
9. 
"Inter-Admir istrative A areement" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules to said
Inter-Administrative Agreement.
10. 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization; an international-
standard-setting body composed of representatives 
from various national
standards organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and
commercial standards fo products.
11. 
"Law No. 13.437" meains Ley No. 18.437, General Law of Education (Ley
General de Educacidn) of the Borrower, dated December 12, 2008, published in
the official gazette (Dia,io Oficial) on January 16, 2009; as such law has been
amended to the date of this Agreement.
12. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenditures (other than consultants
services) incurred by the Borrower or the PCU in connection with the
implementation of the Project including, inter alia: rental and maintenance of
equipment and vehicles renial of office facilities, office utilities, supplies and
materials, and domestic ravel, which expenditures would not have been incurred
absent the Project.
13. 
"Operational Manual" rieans the Project Implementing Entity's manual dated
July 20, 2012, acceptable to the Bank and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule
I to the Project Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time
with the prior written agreememt of the Bank.
14. 
"PCU" means the Piojec. coordination 
unit established in the Project
Implementing Entity, pi rsuant to the Project Implementing Entity's Resolution
No. 57 (February 2, 1994), and ratified through Resolution No. 35 (October 27,
1998) and Resolution No. 40 (December 27, 2001) for the execution of the
Project.
1.5. 
"Procurement Guideline ;" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated July 20, 2012 a:d referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to tirr e in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
-13-
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's national administration of
public education (Adminiistracidn Nacional de Educaci6n Pblica) established
pursuant to the Borrowei's Law No. 15.739 of March 28, 1985 
.
1:3. 
"SEPA" mezns Sistema de jecuci6n de Planes de Adquisiciones, the Bank's
publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System.
19. 
"Training" means the rc asonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower or the
PCU for the arrying out of Iraining activities under the Project, including, inter
alia, reasonable costs of travel, subsistence, rental of training facilities, per diem
for trainers and trainees, registration fees and training materials.
-14-
