OFFICIAL
Docuess
IP AN NUMBER 8133-CO
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the
Sustainable Development Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated -3L* 4 
, 2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated ) Urt ,oo 
, 2012, between the Republic of Colombia
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
(A) WHEREAS the Bank received from the Borrower a letter, dated April 15,
2005: (i) describing a program of actions, objectives and policies to achieve sustainable
development, covering environmental sustainability, social protection (water supply and
housing), and public health (the Program), which Program consists of actions that have
already been taken and actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in
the near future; (ii) declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during
the execution thereof;
(B) WHEREAS the Bank, by Loan Agreement 7335-CO, dated November 23,
2005 between the Bank and the Borrower, has extended to the Borrower a loan in the
amount of seven million Dollars ($7,000,000) 
to support the Borrower in the
development and implementation of policy reforms and related investments in line with
the Program's framework, particularly those polices and investments that address
environmental problems affecting the quality of life and well being of the Borrower's
population; and
(C) WHEREAS the Borrower, through MADS, identified the need to continue
supporting priority issues related to environmental health, management and planning of
water resources, follow up and control of environmental management, and, to that extent,
has requested the Bank additional financing to scale up three of the activities financed
under Loan 7335-CO.
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ten million Dollars ($10,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change
of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate.
-2-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project, and the
Program. To this end, the Borrower, shall carry out:
(a) 
Part 1 of the Project, through MADS;
(b) 
Part 2 of the Project, through MADS, with the assistance of: (i) the
CARS (pursuant to the pertinent Inter-Institutional Arrangements) for the
carrying out of Parts 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) of the Project; and (ii) IDEAM
(pursuant to the pertinent Inter-Institutional Arrangements) for the
carrying out of Part 2.4 of the Project; and
(c) 
Part 3 of the Project, through MADS and DNP, whereby: (i) DNP shall
carry out of Part 3.1 of the Project; and (ii) MADS, with the assistance of
IDEAM (pursuant to the pertinent Inter-Institutional Arrangement) shall
carry out of Part 3.3 of the Project;
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through MADS and DNP. shall ensure, and shall cause IDEAM to ensure, that
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that
IDEAM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the relevant
Inter-Institutional Arrangement in a manner that adversely affects the Project.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Inter-Institutional Arrangements have been duly executed by the respective
parties thereto, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
-3-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter, to be detailed in a legal opinion to be provided by
the Borrower, through MADS, consists of the following, namely, that the Inter-
Institutional Arrangements have been duly executed and are legally binding upon
the Borrower, through MADS, and the Project Implementing Entities in
accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on September 6, 2013.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6C-38, Piso 3
Bogota, Repiblica de Colombia
Facsimile: (57-1) 350-9344
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Deyelopment
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at ?)o-b 
" 
)bhtu of Coonbic as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
B')'Authorized Representa ve
Minister of Finance an Pub ic
Credit
By
Authorized Represent tive
Minister of Environm t and
Sustainable Developm 
t
orized Representative
NationaPlatnniDepartment
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized 
epresentative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in the development and
implementation of policy reforms and related investments in line with the Program's
framework, particularly those polices and investments that address environmental
problems affecting the quality of life and well being of the Borrower's population.
For purposes of the Loan, the Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Environmental Health
1. 
Installation of an emissions testing laboratory (homologation center) for
vehicles and motorcycles in order to ensure accurate measurement of
emissions by said vehicles and motorcycles in the specific conditions
related to the Borrower's territory (e.g. high altitude in many cities) and the
characteristics of said vehicles and motorcycles.
2. 
(a) Development of a prototype Unified Environmental Health Information
System; (b) strengthening of the Air Quality Information System; and (c)
strengthening of the capacity of CARs and AAUs to implement regulations
on noise pollution, monitor air quality and implement technical norms on
point source emissions.
Part 2: Integrated Water Resource Management
1. 
(a) Strengthening of the capacity of the Integrated Water Resources
Management Directorate of MADS to allow the referred directorate to
implement the National Water Resources Policy and the Project; and (b)
carrying out capacity building activities and training programs for CARs in
technical topics related to water resources management, including, inter
alia, integrated water resources management, the Borrower's integrated
water resources system, and the water regulations introduced to implement
the National Water Resources Policy.
2. 
Implementation of the National Water Resources Policy through the
development of priority planning and technical instruments for integrated
water resources management and testing the application of integrated water
management tools in selected pilot watersheds, including:
(a) 
the carrying out of a project to update a participatory groundwater
management 
plan, 
including the updating of the integrated
participatory plan for the aquifer of la Sabana (Bogota), and
increasing the technical understanding of the aquifer in order to
-6-
facilitate its improved management including the carrying out of
activities such as hydrological modeling, water quality monitoring,
and developing inventories of water users;
(b) 
(i) the development of a participatory methodology to legalize water
use rights and associated discharges through the carrying out of two
pilot technical assistance projects in the Chinchina and Guali
watersheds, including the carrying out of activities such as, inter
alia, the development of registers of water users and water polluters
in each of the above-referred watersheds, the preparation of water
balances, and the carrying out of the consultation process described
in the ESMF; and (ii) carrying out of a public communications
strategy at the national level consisting of a media campaign to raise
awareness of the need for, and benefits from, the legalization of
water use rights and associated discharges; and
(c) 
the strengthening of technical environmental norms and the
strengthening of the implementation capacity of the Borrower's
regional environmental authorities, in coordination with IDEAM,
through: 
(i) the 
development of guides 
and 
manuals 
for
environmental zoning, and the definition of ecological flows and
discharge monitoring protocols to be used to strengthen the capacity
of CARs in the future process of preparation of the Borrower's
watershed territorial management plans (Planes de Ordenamiento y
Manejo de Cuencas) and in the administration of water rights and
discharge permits; and (ii) the updating and/or development, in a
participatory manner and through, inter alia, consultations with main
water consumers, of new proposed technical norms on water quality
criteria for various water uses and wastewater discharge to the soils
and coastal areas.
3. 
Carrying out of a pilot project, in coordination with IDEAM, to provide
technical support to CARs to help them fulfill their new responsibility of
generating information about flood risk areas including, inter alia: (a) the
development of a methodology to identify flood risk areas; (b) the
development of a methodology to elaborate flood risk maps at regional and
local levels; and (c) the validation of this methodology.
4. 
(a) Development of additional modules for IDEAM's information system
for water resources management, including the modules describing the
state of water resources, risks, and management indicators; and (b)
strengthening of IDEAM's national monitoring network through the
acquisition, assembly, and installation of about fourteen hydrological
stations and other equipment necessary for the strengthening of the national
water monitoring network in areas to be selected by the Borrower.
-7-
Part 3: Planning and Oversight of Environmental Management
1. 
Strengthening of DNP's capacity for: (a) inter-sectoral coordination to
issue the Environmental Health Policy, through the establishment of
thematic round tables (permanent discussion fora with a wide range of
stakeholders), the carrying out of diagnostic studies at national and local
levels, and the preparation of dissemination strategies and communication
of environmental health information; (b) integrated water resources
management, through supporting the DNP with the establishment of the
institutional pathways, implementation mechanisms and an action plan for
the implementation of the National Water Resources Policy, strengthening
the DNP's engagement in support of implementing the Borrower's
information system for water resources management, its articulation within
the framework of the Borrower's system for environmental information
(Sistema de Informaci6n Ambiental de Colombia) for decision-making, and
supporting DNP in the formulation of an institutional and financing
strategy for the upgrading of water resources monitoring and information
systems referred to in Part 2.4(a) of the Project; (c) the development of the
second phase of the program to reduce the Borrower's fiscal vulnerability
to disasters through the inclusion of risk management criteria within public
investment 
projects, 
the 
establishment 
of mechanisms 
to 
guide
reconstruction 
efforts 
in response to national 
disasters, 
and the
development of a strategy for the inclusion of risk management
considerations in sectoral planning and investment programs; and (d) the
development of an environmental information management strategy for
decision making in the areas of water resources and air quality
management.
2. 
(a) Strengthening of MADS's Directorate on Territorial Planning and
Coordination of the National Environmental System through: (i) the
consolidation of methodologies 
and procedures for evaluation of
environmental policies; (ii) the support to the initiation of the operations of
the internet portals of MADS, the CARs and AAUs as part of the
Borrower's on-line strategy to facilitate greater information transparency
and monitoring; the preparation of sustainable development reports (such
as the reporting on the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals);
(iii) the adjustment of the electronic reporting systems of sustainability
indicators by CARs in accordance with updated regulations; and (iv) the
development of information systems and the provision of training in
support of better monitoring and reporting of sustainability indicators by
CARs and by environmental research institutes; and (b) provision of
technical assistance to support the administration, management, evaluation
and general oversight of the Project.
-8-
3. 
Strengthening of IDEAM and the CARs, in coordination with MADS, in
the implementation of the Borrower's information system on the use of
natural resources (Sistema de Informaci6n de Uso de Recursos) for the
manufacturing sector, specifically through the carrying out of workshops
and the provision of training to support the implementation of the referred
national information system on the use of natural resources in said sector
and to develop indicators of natural resources use by said sector.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through
MADS, shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out, in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and with the terms of: (a) the
Operational Manual; (b) the indicators for the monitoring of the Project; (c) the
ESMF; and (d) the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of these
documents without the Bank's prior written approval. In case of any conflict
between the terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of
this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
At all times during Project implementation the Borrower, through MADS, shall
maintain and cause DNP and IDEAM to maintain an implementation system
within MADS, DNP and IDEAM responsible for overall Project planning,
coordination, implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and with a
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, staffed with at
least a procurement specialist and technical, financial and administrative staff
from MADS', DNP's and IDEAM's administrative and financial units, all in
numbers, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, operating
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MADS, shall, not later than April 30, 2012, update
MADS' financial and administrative procedures with respect to the Project, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Inter-Institutional Arrangements
1 .
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MADS, shall execute written Inter-Institutional Arrangements
among the Project Implementing Entities, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the 
Bank. 
Said 
inter- institutional 
arrangements 
(the 
Inter-Institutional
Arrangements) shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
in the case of the arrangement to be entered into with the CARs: (i) the
obligation of MADS to consult the CARs to ensure that their input is
taken into account regarding the technical aspects of the execution of
Parts 2.2 (a) and 2.2(b) of the Project and (ii) the obligation of the CARS
-10-
to collaborate with MADS to ensure the successful implementation of the
above referred Parts of the Project; and
(b) 
in the case of the arrangement to be entered into with IDEAM:
(i) 
the obligation of IDEAM to: (A) assist MADS 
in the
implementation of Parts 2.4 and 3.3 of the Project in accordance
with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, inter
alia, the ESMF, the provisions of Sections II and III of this
Schedule 2, the Operational Manual, and the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines, and (B) assist MADS to comply with the provisions
of this Agreement (including, inter alia, through the provision to
MADS of the relevant reports, and financial information); and
(ii) 
the obligation of MADS to make available to IDEAM the Loan
proceeds needed for IDEAM to carry out Parts 2.4 and 3.3 of the
Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through MADS, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the Inter-Institutional Arrangements in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate suspend, waive, terminate or fail to
enforce any of the Inter-Institutional Arrangements or any of their provisions.
3. 
In the event that any of the CARs fails to perform any of its respective
obligations under the relevant Inter-Institutional Arrangement in a manner that
adversely affects the Project, the Borrower, through MADS, shall discuss the
issue with the Bank, and refrain from requesting disbursements under the Loan
(pursuant to Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement) until the issue is
solved in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Inter-Institutional Arrangements,
the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
C. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower, through MADS and DNP, shall carry out the Project, and cause
IDEAM to carry out the Project, in accordance with an Operational Manual
which shall contain, inter alia, specific provisions on detailed arrangements for
the carrying out of the Project, including:
(a) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements
thereof;
-11-
(b) 
the templates for the execution of the Inter-Institutional Arrangements;
(c) 
the indicators for the monitoring of the Project;
(d) 
the ESMF; and
(e) 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower, through
MADS and DNP, shall not amend any of the provisions of the Operational
Manual.
3. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual and those of
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MADS and DNP, shall ensure that the Project is carried
out, and shall cause IDEAM to carry out the Project, in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through MADS and DNP, shall carry out the Project, and shall
cause IDEAM to carry out the Project, in accordance with ESMF and shall not
modify the ESMF without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through MADS and DNP, shall ensure, and shall cause IDEAM to
ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancies related to any technical
assistance provided under the Project, shall be satisfactory to the Bank and, to
that end, such terms of reference shall require that the advice conveyed through
such consultancies and technical assistance be consistent with the requirements
of the Bank Safeguard Policies.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MADS, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period
covered by such report.
-12-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MADS, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MADS, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Borrower.
3. 
The Borrower, through MADS, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section M. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
-13-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works, and
Non-consulting Services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional procedures set forth
in sub-paragraphs (a) (i) through (v) of this paragraph)
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting (with prior no objection from the Bank)
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding
(i) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower, through MADS, shall
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank,
for approval, appropriate model bidding documents. Once approved by
the Bank, the Borrower, through MADS, shall use, or cause to be used,
said model bidding documents, as approved for bidding under the
Project. Any change or departure from the model approved shall require
Bank's prior approval.
(ii) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians,
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to
any bidder or group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall
be allowed to submit their bids by hand or through the post office or
private mailing services. There shall not be any requirement for any
bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or
elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless
and until such bidder is awarded the corresponding contract.
(iii) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and
place for the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding
documents. Bid opening shall coincide with, or take place promptly after,
the final date and time of the period for bid submission stipulated in the
bidding documents.
(iv) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial
-14-
standards of capability and whose bid has been determined to be the
lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made exclusively on
the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria
stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied
for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid,
including correction of arithmetic errors.
(v) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.47 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and,
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the
persons officially charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating
the bids while they are performing their official duties, without the
corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not
be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of
contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of
the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which confidentiality
has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality-and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
-15-
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Consultants' Qualifications Selection
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Fixed Budget Selection
(e) Single Source Selection (with prior no objection from the Bank)
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Procurement Plan Execution System
1 .
Without limitation to its reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MADS shall, and shall cause the Implementing Entities to:(i)
supply the SEPA with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan
within forty-five (45) days after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and
(ii) update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as required by the Bank,
to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and shall supply
the SEPA with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan
immediately thereafter.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
-16-
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
1,500,000
consulting services, and 
100%
consultants' services under
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, Consultants'
Services, and Training 
5,000,000 
100%
under Parts 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3
of the Project
(3) Goods, works,
consultants' services, and 
1,500,000 
100%
Training for Part 2.4 of the
Project
(4) Goods, consultants'
services, Training and 
500,000 
100%
Operating Costs under Part
3.1 of the Project
(5) Goods, consultants'
services, Training and 
1,000,000 
100%
Operating Costs under Part
3.2 of the Project
(6) Goods, consultants'
services, Training and 
500,000 
100%
Operating Costs under Part
3.3 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
10,000,000
-17-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee;
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c) 
for payments under Categories (3) and (6), until IDEAM has hired a
financial management specialist and a procurement specialist with
qualifications and experience 
and under terms of reference, all
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is April 29, 2015.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February
15, 2030.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section. Definitions
1. "AAU" 
means Autoridad Ambiental Urbana, any of the Borrower's
municipalities, districts or metropolitan areas with a population of at least one
million people, which have the same functions related to the environment as
CARs, as set forth in Article 66 of the Borrower's Law 99 of 1993.
2. "Air Quality Information System" means the Sistema de Informaci6n sobre
Calidad de Aire, the Borrower's information system on air quality monitoring,
which is integrated with the Borrower's national environmental information
system.
3. "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. "Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
5. "CAR" means Corporacidn Autdnoma Regional, the Borrower's corporate public
entities composed of territorial entities which form a single ecosystem, a
geopolitical unit, a bio-geographical unit or a hydro-geographical unit, all of
which were established by the Borrower's Law 99 of 1993 with separate legal
personality, administrative and financial autonomy, and the responsibility of
environmental management at the regional level.
6. "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"CONPES" means Constjo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social, the
Borrower's National Council on Economic and Social Policy established by the
Borrower's Law 19 of 1958.
8. "CONPES Document" means a policy document approved by CONPES.
9. "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
10. "DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeacidn, the Borrower's National
Planning Department.
-20-
11. "Environmental Health Policy" means the Borrower's policy to be issued
following the guidelines of the CONPES Document 3550 (Lineamientos para la
Formulaci6n de la Politica Integral de Salud Ambiental con Enfasis en los
Componenentes de Calidad de Aire, Calidad de Agua y Seguridad Quimica)
related, inter alia, to the reduction of the risks of exposure of children to mercury
and lead from anthropogenic sources.
12. "ESMF" means the Borrower's environmental 
and social 
management
framework for the Project (Marco para la Gesti6n Ambiental y Social) which
includes, inter alia, a description of the activities to be carried out under the
Project and measures to mitigate the potential adverse effects of said activities,
published by the Borrower on the MADS's website on August 24, 2011, as said
environmental and social management framework may be updated, from time to
time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
13. "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
14. "IDEAM" means Instituto de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y Estudios Ambientales,
the Borrower's institute of hydrology, meteorology and environmental studies,
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law 99 of 1993, with separate legal
personality.
15. "Inter-institutional Arrangements" means any of the arrangements referred in
Section I.B. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. "MADS" means Ministerio de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sostenible, the Borrower's
Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development.
17. "National Water Resources Policy" means the Borrower's policy on integrated
water resources management published in March 2010.
18. "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of the
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia, the cost of minor office
equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and
insurance, office administration, rental of conference facilities and logistic costs
related to the carrying out of workshops, travels and per diem needed for the
supervision of the Project.
19. "Operational Manual" means the manual referred in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, dated January 25, 2012 as said manual may be updated from
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
-21-
20. "Original Project" means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, dated November
23, 2005 (Loan No. 7335-CO), as amended to the date of this Agreement
21. "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006 and May 2010.
22. "Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 24, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies to achieve
sustainable development, covering environmental sustainability, social protection
(water supply and housing), and public health referred to in the letter dated April
15, 2005 from the Borrower to the Bank.
24. "Project Implementing Entity" means either any of the following: MADS, CARs,
DNP, or IDEAM, and "Project Implementing Entities" means collectively the
plural thereof.
25. "SEPA" means the Bank web-based regional procurement management system
developed to create and approve procurement plans online and to promote
transparency, accountability and compliance with Bank policies in Bank funded
projects.
26. "Training" means the reasonable expenditures costs incurred in relation with the
provision of training, not covered under any of the other Categories, including
the cost of rental of conference facilities for training events, and travel and per
diem related to training events.
27. "Unified Environmental Health Information System" means Sistema Unificado
de Informacion de Salud Ambiental, the Borrower's integrated system for the
reporting of monitoring results and studies on environmental health.
-22-
