OFICIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8153-CN
Loan Agreement
(Water Conservation Project II)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
/ 
,2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
4 
s st 
, 2012, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars
(US$80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 1-o this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Corversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the L:an, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly followirg the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Bor-ower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entities in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
-3-
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the PIP.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
FEPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance-
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of Anerica
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve agriculture water management and to
increase agricultural water productivity in the Project Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Water Works and Water-saving Facilities
Carrying out of specific investme:it Sub-projects for the improvement of the physical
conditions and delivery efficiency of the irrigation systems in 24 selected Project
Counties, including:
(i) 
the construction of about 4.22 km lining and/or dredging of Xiaoyinhe
canal in Hebei's Darning county and about 17.55 km branch canal lining
in Qingtongxia anc. Weining Irrigation Districts of Ningxia, and lining of
about 677.38 km lateral and lower canals;
(ii) 
a low rubber dam for water regulation in Jiexiu county and a pump
station of design discharge of 0.12m3/s for irrigation in Lishi county in
Shanxi;
(iii) 
main water conveyance pipelines of about 92.82 km for supplying about
36.65 million cubic meters of water annually for irrigation and other uses
to a number of townships and villages of Yushe, Jiexiu, Linxian, Lishi
and Jiaocheng counties in Shanxi; and
(iv) 
on-farm works covering about 58,466 ha of irrigated area equipped with
water saving works and technologies, such as canal rehabilitation,
installation of low-pressure pipes and micro-irrigation.
Part B: Aericultural Water-Savine Measures and Support Services
Provision of financial and technical support to reduce non-beneficial evapo-transpiration
(ET), increase the resilience of fa:-m community to climate change, and increase farm
yield and output value, through activities pertaining to: (i) about 30,020 ha of land
leveling; (ii) crop residue utilization in about 24,428 ha; (iii) plastic membrane covering
for soil moisture preservation over about 17,580 ha; (iv) balanced fertilizer applications
over about 27,468 ha; (v) new seeds verity application in about 7,864 ha; (vi) deep-
ploughing farmland in about 14,522 ha; (vii) integrated pest management demonstration
-6-
over about 4,817 ha; and (viii) about 6,920 green houses for growing high-value
vegetables and fruits.
Part C: Management Measures and Institutional Development
Carrying out of programs to improve agricultural water management capacity of
irrigation management staff and user communities for the purpose of saving water and
increasing water productivity, including: (i) participatory irrigation management through
the establishment and/or strengthe-ing of about 259 WUAs; (ii) training of farmers in
irrigation management and agricultural technologies for water saving and productivity
improvement; (iii) development of water resources management strategic plans in
selected counties; (iv) two (2) innovative water resources management pilot schemes; and
(v) applied research on salinity control in high groundwater table areas of Ningxia and
ET-based water resources management planning in water scarce areas of Shanxi.
Part D: Project Management and Implementation Support
Facilitating Project implementation, through: (i) the carrying out of surveys, feasibility
study, and design and construction supervision support for all Sub-projects; (ii) provision
of provincial and municipal mobile specialist teams for technical and management
guidance to local Project staff, and dam safety expert review and advice for Linked Dams
in Shanxi; and (iii) provision of Project management support at national, provincial,
municipal and county levels, and carrying out of results-based monitoring and evaluation,
including the establishment of a management information system.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
For the purposes of carrying out each Project Implementing Entity's Respective
Part of the Project, the Borrower sFall make available to each such Project Implementing
Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, part of the proceeds of the
Loan on the following principal terms:
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuait to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions)
shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace
period of five (5) years.
(iii) 
Interest shall be zharged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from :ime to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to: (a)
manage, operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consen:s and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan prozeeds and the implementation of its Respective Part of
the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its
undertakings under the Prcject Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Respective Part of the Project and
provide promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as
may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
B. 
Institutional Arrangements
I1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out through:
-8-
(i) 
at the central level, the MWR, which shall: (a) be responsible for the
overall coordination, facilitation and for providing strategic policy
guidance and oversight to the implementation of the Project. For this
purpose, the MWR shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, a
national Project Leading Group (PLG), to be headed by the Director
General of the Rural Water Management Department, comprising senior
officials from the relevant departments of MWR, and concerned deputy
directors-general of the water resources departments of Hebei, Ningxia,
and Shanxi; (b) maintain its current Central Project Management Office
(CPMO) headed by the Director-General of MWR's Irrigation and
Drainage Development Center and comprising officials and specialists of
MWR, to be responsible for providing general advice on technical
matters and reform pilots to the Provincial Project Management Offices
(PPMOs) 
and County PMOs, coordinating 
with related 
MWR
departments for national level counterparts funding and among different
provinces, organizing operational training and study tours, tracking
progress of the Project, consolidating project annual work programs and
progress reports, liaising with the national government authorities and
the Bank for project related reviews and approvals.
(ii) 
at the Provincial level: (a) a PLG, in Hebei and Shanxi, and GFDMLG,
in Ningxia, chaired by a Vice Governor of the province and comprising
leaders from the responsible 
provincial 
government departments
(Development & Reform, Finance, Water Resources, and Agriculture), to
give guidance to the PPMO and municipal PLG in the province on
important project-related matters, including, without limitation, Sub-
project selection, funding, provincial level reviews and approval, and
management reform pilots.
(iii) 
at the municipal level in Hebei and Shanxi, a PLG, chaired by a senior
government offic al of the municipal government and comprising
officials and sectors leaders from the concerned departments of the
municipality and county governments to report to the provincial PLG,
and to be responsible for guiding Municipal Project Management Office
(Municipal PMO) on project related policy matters.
(iv) 
in each of the 24 selected Project Counties, a PLG, chaired by the
respective County Chief or his deputy, and consisting of the leaders from
the responsible county government agencies, to be responsible for
guiding Project implementation and management at the County level.
(iv) 
at community Level, the WUAs, which will each directly participate in
selection of Sub-projects for rehabilitation, implementation of the on-
farm works and agricultural interventions, as well as training on
irrigation management and agricultural technologies.
-9-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, ind shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to
take, all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable
the Project Implementing Entities and the Project Counties to comply with the
provisions of Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
E. 
Safety of Dams
The Borrower shall ensure or cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure
that their Respective Parts of the Project shall be implemented in compliance
with the Bank's Operational Policy on Safety of Dams and the Safeguards
Instruments, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring ,Reportin2 and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entities to monitor and evaluate the progress of their Respective
Parts of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set
forth in Annex of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and the Borrower shall
consolidate all Project Reports received from the Project Implementing Entities
into one single Progress Report that shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project (.mplementation completion report) and related plan
required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
three (3) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
- 10 -
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as
part of the Project Report, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for their Respective Parts
of the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to have their
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
t. 
Goods and Works. 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall oherwise agree, procurement of all goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be carried out by a qualified independent procurement agent, engaged by the
PPMO.
4. 
Definitions. 
The capital zed terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement meihods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
3. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Procurement Giidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territo-y of the Borrower (other than goods manufactured in
- 11 -
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower or the Macau
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below,
works costing less than $20,000,000 equivalent per contract and goods
costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under 
contracts 
awarded 
under 
National 
Competitive 
Bidding
procedures. In addition, the procedures to be followed for National
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering
and Bidding of the People's Republic of China promulgated by Order
No.21 of the Pres dent of the People's Republic of China on August 30,
1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the
Procurement Guidelines:
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's country,
except works contracts that are estimated to cost more than
US$1)O,000 
equivalent 
but 
less 
than 
US$2,000,000
equivalent each or goods contracts that are estimated to cost
less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised
in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be
made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and
subm it their responses. 
In any event, a minimum of thirty
(30) lays shall be given to bidders between the date of
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified
in delail in the bidding documents.
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there
shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders.
- 12 -
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an
amount sufficient to protect the employer in case of breach
of cortract by the contractor, and the bidding documents
shall specify the required form and amount of such security.
In place of a bid security, the bidding documents may
requires that a bidder submit with its bid a signed declaration
that, if the bidder withdraws its bid during the bid validity
period or, if awarded the contract, the bidder fails to sign the
contract or submit any required performance security before
the deadline required in the bidding documents, the bidder
will be suspended for a period of two years from being
awarded any contract with the Borrower or Shanxi, Hebei
and Ningxia, including any of their departments, agencies or
administrative units.
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.
The tine for opening of all bids shall be the same as the
deadline for receipt of such bids.
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be
afforded an opportunity to be present (either in person or
through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, but
bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in
the form of pass/fail requirements.
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or
Shanx , Hebei and Ningxia.
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose
bid has been determined (A) to be substantially responsive to
the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated
cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition
of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not
stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify
the bic as originally submitted.
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the
- 13 -
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the
Bank.
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower's territory
may be permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods and
works, if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law;
and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting
the procurement.
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number
of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's prior
written concurrence.
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be
published in the national press or provincial press (as
provided 
in above (a) or official gazette or free and open
access websites, and shall identify (a) the name of each
bidder who submitted a bid, (b) bid prices as read out at bid
opening; (c) the name and evaluated price of each evaluated
bid; (d) the name of bidders whose bids were rejected and
the reasons for their rejection; and (e) the name and offered
prices of the winning bidder as well as the duration and
summary scope of the awarded contract.
(xiv) 
Shanxi, Hebei and Ningxia shall have in place provisions
for bidders to protest.
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
(d) Community participation in procurement
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality -and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality-and Cost-based
- 14 -
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Individual Consultants
(d) Single source selection
3. 
The short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$300,000
equivalent may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post review by the
Bank.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the
terms-of-reference for all consultants' services contracts, regardless of value,
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table speci'ies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 15 -
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(in Dollars) 
(inclusive of taxes)
i1) Works
(a) Hebei 
15,770,000 
66%
(b) Shanxi 
17,745,000 
75%
(c) Ningxia 
22,855,000 
100%
12) Goods and equipment
(a) Hebei 
2,490,000 
100%
(b) Shanxi 
10,560,000 
100%
(c) Ningxia 
5,370,000 
100%
(3) Consultants Services, Training,
Incremental Operating Costs
(a) Hebei 
1,250,000 
100%
(b) Shanxi 
1,500,000 
100%
(c) Ningxia 
1,470,000 
100%
(4) WUA Sub-grant
(a) Hebei 
440,000 
100%
(b) Shanxi 
120,000 
100%
(c) Ningxia 
230,000 
100%
(5) Front End Fee 
200,000 
Amount payable pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07(b) of
the General Conditions
(6) Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due pursuant to Section
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
2.07(c) of this Agreement
premium
TOTAL 
80,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
inadefor payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total priricipal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installmert Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been filly
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15 
2%
Beginning October 15, 2017
through April 15, 2042
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each sLch withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Instal'ment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred :o in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applics.
- 17-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Lcan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Paynent Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding tl e provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of al or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank uncer the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 18-
APPENDIX
Definitions
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
"Consultant Guidelines" treans the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 revised in October 2006
and May 2010.
4. 
"CPMO" means the Central Project Management Office, referred to in paragraph
B. 1(i)(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5. 
"County PMO" means county level Project Management Office, established by
each Project County and to be maintained according to the provisions of
paragraph 1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement
6. 
"Dam" means any new dam built under the Project, or any other pre-existing
Dams.
"Dam Safety Plans" means (a) with respect to Shanxi: (i) the Operation and
Maintenance Plan dated July 29, 2010 for Yangpo and Taiping dams, and August
10, 2010 for Wucheng and Yunzh dams; and (ii) the Emergency Preparedness
Plan dated August 10, 201C, for Yangpo and Taiping dams, and August 29, 2010,
for Wucheng and Yunzu cams; and (b) with respect to Ningxia, the Operation
and Maintenance Plan and the Emergency Preparedness Plan dated April 2007,
for Qingtongxia Dam, and September 2007, for Shapotou Dam; all setting out
measures for safety of all existing linked dams in Shanxi and. Ningxia (as
hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
8. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person;
and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.
- 19-
Q. 
"Environmental Management Plans" or the acronym "EMPs" means collectively,
the Environmental Managcment Plans each dated September 30, 2010, adopted
by the Project Implementing Entity for Hebei, Shanxi and Ningxia respectively,
which plans set out the environmental protection measures in respect of the
Project, as well as admin strative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the
implementation of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all
schedules 
and 
agreements 
supplemental 
thereto; 
and 
"Environmental
Management Plan" means, individually, any of the Environmental Management
Plans.
0. 
"ET" or "Evapo-transpiration" 
means the sum of evaporation and plant
transpiration from the earth's land surface to the atmosphere.
1 .
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
2. 
"GFDMLG" means Ninjxia's foreign debt management 
leading 
group
responsible for the daily nanagement of Ningxia's foreign debt, with office
located within its Finance Department.
'3. 
"Hebei" means the Borrower's Province of Hebei, or any successor thereto.
4. 
"Incremental 
Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenditures directly
related to the Project incurred by the CPMO, PPMOs, MPMOs, and County
PMOs on account of Project implementation, management, coordination, and
monitoring and evaluation, in respect of in-country travel costs, vehicle and
equipment leasing, rent, maintenance and repair, office rent and supplies,
communications 
costs, logistics and translation services, production 
and
reproduction of documents required for Project implementation, but excluding
the salaries and salary supplements of the Borrower's civil servants.
15. 
"Linked Dams" means collectively the Yunzhu dam, the Wucheng dam, the
Yangpo dam and the Taiping dam in Shanxi Province, and the Qingtongxia dam
and the Shapotou dam in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, in each case already
existing prior to the Date of this Agreement and all upstream of the Project
Areas.
16. 
"Municipal PMO" or "MPMO" means municipal level Project Management
Office, established by each Project Implementing Entity and to be maintained
according to the provisions of paragraph A. 1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
17. 
"MWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources, or any successor
thereto.
- 20 -
8. 
"Ningxia" means the Borrower's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, or any
successor thereto.
9. 
"Pest Management Plan" or "PMP" means the plan prepared by each of the
Project Implementing Entities and all dated October 11, 2010, which sets out,
with respect to the Project, measures for the management of pesticides, as well as
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said
plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004 revised October 2006 and May 2010.
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means collectively the Borrower's procurement plan for the
Respective Part of the Project in Hebei, Shanxi and Ningxia, each dated March
16, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
22. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entities of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement.
23. 
"Project Areas" means, in respect of each Project Implementing Entity, the areas
within the territory of the Project Implementing Entity, selected by written
agreement between the Bank and said Project Implementing Entity, in which the
Project is to be carried out; and "Project Area" means any of the Project Areas.
24. 
"Project Counties" means the counties of Qiuxian, Feixiang, Shexian, Jize,
Daming, Quzhou, Linzhang, Guantao, Laoting and Luannan in Hebei province;
Qingtongxia, 
Lingwu, 
Yongning, 
Helan, 
Pingluo, 
Huinong, 
Shabotou,
Zhongning and the State-farm in Ningxia Province; and Yushe, Jiexiu, Linxian,
Lishi and Jiaocheng in Shanxi Province; and "Project County" means any of the
Project Counties.
25. 
"Project Implementing Entities" means the Borrower's provinces of Hebei and
Shanxi, and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region; and "Project Implementing
Entity" means any of the Project Implementing Entities.
26. 
"Project Implementation Plan" or the acronym "PIP" means the Project
Implementation Plan daled March 16, 2012, to be followed during the
implementation of the Project, and detailing, inter alia, the institutional and
-21 -
implementation 
arrangements, 
financial 
management 
and 
procurement
procedures, 
implementation 
schedules, 
operations 
and 
maintenance
management schedule, Sub-project selection criteria and guidelines, funds
allocation process, and implementation procedures, and the monitoring and
evaluation arrangements.
27. 
"PLG" means any of the Project leading groups referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be maintained throughout Project
implementation.
28. 
"PPMO" means Provincial Project Management Office, established by each of
the Project Implementing Entities and to be maintained according to the
provisions of paragraph A.1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
219. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or the acronym "RAPs" means, collectively, each of
the Resettlement Action P ans adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for
Hebei, Shanxi and Ningxia respectively, all dated October 11, 2010, which plans
set out, inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures governing land acquisition,
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of
the execution of the Project; and (b) reporting and monitoring arrangements to
ensure compliance with said plans, as said RAPs may be revised from time to
time with the prior writter agreement of the Bank and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental thereto; and "Resettlement Action Plan"
means, individually, any of the Resettlement Action Plans.
-0. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Policy Framework for Resettlement
and Land Acquisition, dated October 11, 2010, duly adopted by the CPMO,
setting forth the policies, planning principles and institutional arrangements
designed to improve the living standards and productive capacity of persons
affected by the Project, 
and design criteria in accordance with which
resettlement action plans are prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2, Section I of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement; as said Policy Framework may be amended from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental thereto.
31. 
"Respective Part of the Prcject" means, in respect of each Project Implementing
Entity, all the Subprojects to be carried out within the territory of said Project
Implementing Entity.
32. 
"Rural Water Management Department" means the MWR's Department of rural
water management, or any successor thereto.
- 22 -
33. 
"Safeguards 
Instruments" 
means, 
collectively, 
the 
Resettlement 
Policy
Framework, any of the Resettlement Actions Plans, any of the Environmental
Management Plans, the Pest Management Plan, the Dam Safety Plans, and such
term includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments.
34. 
"Shanxi" means the Borrower's Province of Shanxi, or any successor thereto.
35. 
"Subproject" means a specific investment sub-project to be carried out in a
Project Area, under Parts A through C of the Project, and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
-6. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on
annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to
seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas study tours, along with travel
and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparalion and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
37. 
"WUAs" means water user associations to be established under Part C of the
Project; and "WUA" means any of the WUAs.
38. 
"WUA Sub-grants" 
means the non-reimbursable 
funds associated with
establishment and strengthening of water users associations in the Project Areas,
including expenditures related to registration fee, training for farmers, office
furniture (tables and chairs, file cabinet) supplies, and equipment and other small
expenses incurred for operation of WUAs.
