 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8087-PA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated January 4, 2012 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 4, 2012, entered into between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) 
for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) 
the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate 
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty six million Dollars ($66,000,000) (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one half of one percent 
(0.50%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 
sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
If, at the Borrower’s request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may agree, the 
Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each extension of the 
Closing Date shall be at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the amount of 
the Loan available for withdrawal upon such extension. If the Borrower elects to 
capitalize the fee from the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself such amounts required to pay such fee.  If the 
Borrower elects to pay the fee from its own resources, the Borrower shall pay such fee 
not later than sixty days after the date of the notice given by the Bank to the Borrower 
confirming the extension of the Closing Date. 
 
2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and 
such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
-2- 
 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal 
amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, at the time of requesting a Withdrawal, also request 
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity of such 
Withdrawal does not exceed 18 years from the Withdrawal Date and the final 
maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from the Withdrawal Date 
(or such other average maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally 
applicable to loans made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such 
agreement); and (ii) such repayment provisions have been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
In order to facilitate prudent debt management, the Borrower may at any time 
request a Conversion of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread. 
 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank, refund 
any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such amount to the 
Loan Account for further withdrawals.  Upon such refund, the repayment schedule shall 
be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework and the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
 
-3- 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation 
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will 
be carried out. 
 
4.02 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the 
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program 
and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on April 18, 
2013. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Edificio OGAWA, Vía España y Calle 52 Este 
Panamá 
 
Telephone: 
 
 
Facsimile: 
(507) 507 7202  
 
(507) 507 7200 
 
 
-4- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Mario E. Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program 
 
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program.  The actions taken by the Borrower under the 
Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MINGOB, has adopted the Comprehensive Disaster Risk 
Management National Policy (Política Nacional de Gestión Integral de Riesgo 
de Desastres). 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SINAPROC, has adopted the PNGR. 
 
3. 
DICRE has furnished to the Borrower’s Executive Branch a proposal to expand 
the functions and responsibilities of DICRE so as to enable said directorate to, 
inter alia, design, develop and implement financial protection measures in 
connection with disaster risks. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, 
from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
66,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
66,000,000 
 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  
 
D. 
Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.04 of Agreement.  If the Closing Date is 
extended pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the Borrower elects to finance 
from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no withdrawal shall be made from 
the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of such fee. 
 
E. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.   
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
is satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to it, that a State of Emergency 
(Estado de Emergencia) exists in the Borrower’s territory as a result of a natural 
 
-6- 
 
disaster which has been declared by the Borrower, through an Executive Decree 
(Decreto Ejecutivo), all in accordance with the Borrower’s legislation. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of 
a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a 
review of the Borrower’s progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the 
Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless 
and until the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange 
of views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
F. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
G. 
Audit.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the account designated by the Borrower pursuant to Section F.1 of this 
Section II audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account and its audit 
as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
H. 
Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 
 
I. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is November 30, 2014. 
 
 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each November 15 and May 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2014  
 
through November 15, 2025 
 
 
4.17% 
On May 15, 2026 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
 
-8- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Section I.   
Definitions 
 
1. 
“DICRE” means Dirección de Inversiones, Concesiones y Riesgos del Estado, the 
Borrower’s Directorate of Investment, Concessions and Risks, created through the 
Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 110 of August 4, 2009. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
 
 
-9- 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications 
set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy 
and Finance. 
 
5. 
“PNGR” means Plan Nacional de Gestión de Riesgos 2011 – 2015, the Borrower’s 
Disaster Risk Management National Plan for the years 2011 – 2015 defining the actions 
to be taken by the Borrower and civil society to, inter alia, manage risks and prepare for 
disaster cases. 
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance the 
capacity of the Borrower to implement a disaster risk management program for adverse 
natural events and set forth or referred to in the letter dated July 25, 2011 from the 
Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
7. 
“SINAPROC” means Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil, the Borrower’s National 
Civil Protection System, created pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 7 of February 11, 
2005. 
 
8. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“State of Emergency” means a declaration by the Borrower, through an Executive Decree 
(Decreto Ejecutivo), of a state of emergency (Estado de Emergencia) due to a 
catastrophic disaster (excluding pandemics) generated by natural phenomena, pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Law No. 7 of February 11, 2005 and any other legal instrument, 
 
-10- 
 
compatible with the existing regulation of a State of Emergency, that the Borrower may 
introduce from time to time with the previous agreement of the Bank. 
  
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
… 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
… 
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:  
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
 
-11- 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for the 
Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, 
on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per annum; provided, 
that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (e), that is applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of 
such amount; (b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a 
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for purposes 
of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or 
any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be 
adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: (1) the 
Bank’s standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the Reference Rate, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions 
thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on the 
Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one 
Currency, “Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  
 
(f) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
 
 
“Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 
 
 
-12- 
 
(g) 
A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
 
 
“Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the Bank 
pays the Withdrawal. 
 
 
