OFFICIAL
DOCUUNTS
LOAN NUMBER 7951-BR
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Health and Water Management Project -
Programa com Enfoque Setorial Amplo das Areas de Saide e Recursos Hidricos do
Estado da Bahia)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF BAHIA
Dated 
, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7951-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
,'? 
2012 , between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTR CTI 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and the STATE
OF BAHIA ("Borrower"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreerient.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Dollars, ($60,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the cost of the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is its Secretary of Planning.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General
Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection
of the Guarantor through the Secretariat of National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, 
request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to
all or any portion f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of a-a Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Project through SEPLAN, for Part 2.A
of the Project; (b) carry out the Project through SESAB, for the health sector
activities under Parts 1. A (i), 1.B and 2.B of the Project; (c) cause CERB and
INEMA to carry out the water sector activities under their administrative
responsibility in respect of Parts L.A (ii) and 2.C of the Project; and (d) cause the
TCE to carry out Part 2.D of the Project, all under the general coordination of
SEPLAN and pursuant to t-.e terms of the pertinent Framework Agreements and
the Annual Performance Agreements, and in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Ccnditions.
-2-
lp_ N-
-.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower anc the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -- REMEDIES OF THE BANK
z-.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any of
the Participating Entities shall have failed to comply with any of the provisions
under the pertinent Framework Agreement, in which case, and without limitation
to the provisions of Section 7.02 of the General Conditions, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, sus 3end in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures attributable to the
respective Participating Ent.ty.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement concurrently occurs with
respect to all of the Participating Entities participating in the Project and is
continuing for a period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following, namely that the Loan has
been duly registered with the Central Bank of the Guarantor.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is October 1, 2012.
ARTICLE VI- 
FEPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary of Finance.
6.02. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reccnstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
5.03. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria da Fazenda
Avenida Luiz Viana Filho
Segunda Avenida, 260
Centro Administrativo da Eahia
Salvador, BA, 41745-000
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-71) 3115- 8802
With copies to:
Secretaria do Planejamento
Avenida Luiz Viana Filho
Segunda Avenida, 250
Centro Administrativo da E ahia
Salvador, BA, 41745-003
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-3950
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministério do Planejamentc, Orçamento e Gestão
Esplanada dos Ministérios -- Bloco "K" - 5° andar
Brasília, DF, 70040-906
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
-4-
AGREED at 
Z 
Adeno-hVe 
pualc 0 
J 
, as of the day
and year first above writt n.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representa
STATE OF BAHIA
By 
/
Authori ed 
presentative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase access to clean water, sanitation and
basic health care in at least 10 Selected Municipalities most affected by infectious
intestinal diseases (H1D); and (b) improve Neonatal health care in 25 Selected Hospitals
using a Barema indicator of quality and efficiency.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Contribute to Reducing the IMR (Neonatal and Post-neonatal) in the Borrower's
territory
A. 
Contribute to reducing the Borrower's post-neonatal mortality and morbidity due
to IID, through the provision of support to increase access to clean water,
sanitation and basic healthcare in the Borrower's municipalities most affected by
IID, through:
(i) selected interventions in the health sector aiming at reducing the incidence and
prevalence of IID as well as limiting unnecessary hospitalization in 25
Borrower's hospitals with :he highest rates of IID annually identified, through,
inter alia, vaccinations canpaigns, the establishment of family health teams and
the preparation of reports of clinical audits; and
(ii) selected interventions ir the water sector aiming at supporting the Borrower's
long term goal of providing sustainable water and sanitation services, through,
inter alia, the provision 
f adequate water resources management and the
construction of simplified rural and water supply systems and sanitation modules.
13. 
Contribute to reducing Necnatal mortality in 25 Selected Hospitals, through the
provision of support to Selected Municipalities to expand and improve the
quality and efficiency of primary, secondary, and tertiary maternal and Neonatal
health care services (health care chain) by introducing Programa Nascer (PRO-
NASCER) in 25 Selected Hospitals in the form of Per-Capita Premium for each
Enrolled Eligible Beneficiary.
Part 2: Technical Assistance for the Institutional Modernization of Health, Water and
Planning Sectors
Provision of support to the Borrower's management, monitoring and evaluation capacity
in the water, health, and planning sectors, through the carrying out of the following
activities:
-6-
A. 
Strengthening of the institulional capacity of SEPLAN, through, inter alia: (i) the
development, piloting and evaluation of public policies and reducing bureaucratic
bottlenecks in the BorrowEr's flow of funds process and respective approvals;
and (ii) the management and monitoring of multi-sectoral operations.
13. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of SESAB through, inter alia: (i) the
adjustment of its strategic objectives to reflect the essential public health
functions using a reengineeing process for identifying gaps in competencies and
processes required to carry out the new maternal and child health agenda; and (ii)
the compliance among lower organizational levels and public hospitals
(especially in 25 Selected Fospitals) by defining and meeting their targets within
a results-based management framework.
C. 
Strengthening of the institu:ional capacity of INEMA and CERB, through, inter
alia: (i) the development of strategic plans for both entities as well as a
communication strategy fcr INEMA; (ii) the strengthening of CERB's rural
water supply teams; and (iii) the development of a plan for remote operations that
includes enhancing efficiency, finding alternatives to transfer knowledge,
lowering costs, and creating staff incentives for improved performance.
). 
Provision of support to TCE for, inter alia, the updating of the TCE's
administrative and processing systems to enable TCE to provide timely review
and monitoring of the Borrower's investment operations, such as those under the
Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements and Audits
The Borrower shall establIsh, and thereafter maintain, at all times during the
execution and until completion of the Project, a coordination unit within
SEPLAN to be responsiblc for the overall implementation and coordination of
the Project (the "PCU"). Such PCU shall have structure and functions
satisfactory to the Bank, and staff in adequate numbers and with adequate
qualifications as set forth in the Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall, no later than 3 months after the Effective Date, agree on, and
thereafter maintain during tie carrying out of Part 1.A (i) and Part 1.B, a specific
work plan with the SUS Audit, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, for purposes of certifying the reported Health Sector Outputs and Per-
Capita Premia as Eligible Expenditures. The SUS Audit shall issue an opinion
and report (as defined in the Operational Manual and in the additional
instructions referred to in Section IV.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) on the
number of Health Sector Outputs and Per-Capita Premium delivered during the
pertinent calendar semester.
3. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall, and shall cause CERB and INEMA to
provide to the Bank the required documentation (as defined in the Operational
Manual and in the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreemeat) for each of the Water Sector Outputs reflecting the
number of Water Sector Outputs delivered during the pertinent calendar semester
for purposes of recognizing the reported Water Sector Outputs as Eligible
Expenditures.
4. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, starting on the second year after the Effective
Date, shall submit to the Bank the Unit Cost calculated and established by the
Participating Entities in accordance with the methodologies and provisions
included in the original calculation agreed with the Bank. The Unit Cost shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and shall be furnished to the
Bank for each such period for approval not later than one month after the end of
such period.
5. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 4 above and Section IV.A.8,
the Borrower may, through SEPLAN, propose the Bank additional reviews of the
Outputs, the Per-Capita Premium, and other related Unit Costs earlier or later
-8-
than as set forth in the preceding paragraph and in Section IV.A.8 and after such
reviews, adjust them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
13. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Implementation Agreements
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall
enter into a separate agreement (the Framework Agreement) with each of the
following Participating Entities: (a) SESAB in respect of Part 1.A (i), 1.B and
2.B of the Project; (b) CEFB in respect of Part 1.A (ii) of the Project and those
activities under Part 2.C of the Project which fall under its administrative
responsibility; (c) INEMA in respect of Part L.A (ii) of the Project and those
activities under Part 2.C of the Project which fall under its administrative
responsibility; and (d) TCE in respect of Part 2.D of the Project, all under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i)
compliance with the technical, financial, administrative, environmental/social
safeguards and fiduciary aspects of the implementation of the Project pursuant to
the pertinent provisions of :his Agreement and those of the Operational Manual;
(ii) compliance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and (iii)
budget allocation to CERB, INEMA and TCE for the implementation of the
Project activities mentioned herein.
2. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 1.B of the Project, the Borrower, through
SESAB, shall: (a) not later than 3 months after the Effective Date for the first
year of the Project; and thereafter (b) not later than December 31 of each
subsequent year of Project implementation, shall enter into a separate
performance agreement (the Annual Performance Agreement) with each Service
Provider setting forth, inter alia: (i) the annual objectives and annual indicators;
(ii) 
the activities to be carried out under Part 1.B of the Project during the
relevant calendar year; anc, (iii) compliance with the technical, financial, and
administrative, fiduciary, and environmental/social safeguards requirements of
this Agreement and of the Operational Manual, all on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall: (i) through SEPLAN, exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Framework Agreement and, through SESAB, exercise its
rights and carry out its obl:.gations under each Annual Performance Agreement,
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any
-9-
Framework Agreement ar d/or any Annual Performance Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Project Operational Manual
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a
manual (the "Operational Manual"), satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to
include, inter alia:
(a) 
the functions, responsibilities and training requirements for the personnel
responsible for th- coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project, including the PCU;
(b) 
the criteria for cioosing the Selected Hospitals and the Selected
Municipalities;
(c) 
the procedures for procurement of goods, works, Non-Consultant
Services and consultants' services, as well as for financial management,
disbursement and audits of the Project and the respective forms, reports
and guidelines;
(d) 
the indicators to measure, monitor and evaluate the Outputs and Per-
Capita Premia and other Project activities;
(e) 
the requirements and operating guidelines applicable to the Outputs
including the verifiation procedures, and the Unit Cost of such Outputs
as per the agreed ty?ologies;
(f) 
the requirements and operating guidelines applicable to the Per-Capita
Premia including the verification procedures, and the Unit Cost of such
Per-Capita Premium and respective disbursement procedures;
(g) 
a model Framework Agreement and Annual Performance Agreement;
and
(h) 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework (including the
Environmental 
Management 
Plan 
and 
the 
Indigenous 
Peoples
Framework).
In case of any inconsistency between any provision of the Operational Manual
and this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement will prevail. Any
amendment to the Operational Manual can occur only if acceptable to the Bank.
-10-
E. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall implement the Project or cause the Project to be implemented
in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, the Environmental Management Plan, the Indigenous Peoples
Framework and the Indigenous Peoples Plan.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordar ce with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of: (i) the Indicators agreed with the Bank and set
forth in the Operational Manual; and (ii) the Annual Performance Agreements.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than 90 days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.
13. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The Borrower shall ensure that the audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of such period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
-I11-
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services. 
All goods, works and Non-
consultant Services (in whole or in part) required for the Project and to be
financed under the Project out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requi7ements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed (in whole or in part) out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the co1responding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Cuidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services
[. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works, and Non-consultant Services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services. The following t.ble specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works and
Non-consultant services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of goods, Non-
Consultant Services and works, convite, tomada de preqos and
concorrdncia set forth in the Guarantor's Law No 8666 of June 21, 1993,
as well as procurement in accordance with the method known as "pregdo
eletr6nico", as provided in the Guarantor's Law No 
10520 of July 17,
2002, under an e-procurement system approved by the Bank), subject to
the following additioral procedure, namely, that the bidding documents
shall be acceptable to 1he Bank.
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods and services, pregdo eletr6nico
set forth in the Guarantor's Law No 10520 of July 17, 2002), subject to
the following additioral procedure, namely, that the bidding documents
shall be acceptable to 1he Bank.
(c) Direct Contracting.
-12-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' servibes shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
:2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstarces under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
(b) Quality-based Selection
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single Source Selection
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-13-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, Training, Non-
Consultant Services, and 
8,500,000 
100%
consultants' services for
Part 2 of the Project
(2) 
Health Sector Outputs 
100% of the applicable Unit
under Part 1.A 
(i) of 
4,000,000 
Costs as set forth in the
the Project 
Operational Manual
(3) 
Water Sector Outputs 
100% of the applicable Unit
under Part L.A (ii) of 
28,386,000 
Costs as set forth in the
the Project 
Operational Manual
100%, as further specified
(4) Per-Capita Premia under 
in 
Section 
IV.A.5 
of
Part 1.B of the Project 
Schedule 
2 
to 
this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated 
2,764,000
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
(6) Front-end Fee 
150,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
60,000,000
3. 
For the purposes of this Seztion, the term "Training" means expenditures (other
than those for consultants' services) incurred in connection with the carrying out
of training, seminars, and workshops under the Project, including the reasonable
travel cost and per-diem of the trainers and trainees, tuition fees, as well as
training materials.
4. 
The Outputs eligible for financing for each Project activity under Parts 1 A (i)
and (ii) of the Project are as follows:
-14-
Outputs
"o 
Output Name 
Unit of Measurement
0U
1 
Plans for building simplified water supply 
Plans elaborated
systems elaborated.
2 
Simplified water supply systems built and 
Systems built and
operational in at leas: 10 Selected 
operational as certified by
Municipalities. 
the respective municipality
(Prefeitura)
3 
Supervision of the ccnstruction of 
Final Supervision reports
simplified water supply systems built. 
elaborated by CERB.
4 
Rural sanitary pilot modules built and 
Modules built and
operational. 
operational as received by
each beneficiary family and
certified by the TCE
5 
River basin plans (Planos de Bacia) 
Plans prepared and
prepared and approved by the river basin 
approved by the river basin
committees (Comites de Bacia) including 
committees.
studies for classifying water bodies
according to location and predominant use.
6 
Community volunteer agents for social 
Agents trained and retained
mobilization trained and retained by
INEMA.
7 
Doses of oral vaccine against human 
Applied doses
rotavirus in children inder one year of age
(first dose) applied.
8 
Doses of oral vaccine against human 
Applied doses
a. 
rotavirus in children under one year of age
(second dose) applied.
9 
New family health teams (PSF) in the State 
PSF teams created
appointed and in operations.
Z 
10 
Satisfactory consolidated report of clinical 
Reports Prepared
audits carried out in the 25 Selected
Hospitals with the highest number of cases
L_ 
I of IID prepared.
:5. 
The Per-Capita Premia shESll be managed pursuant to agreed guidelines, as set
forth below and further detailed in the Operational Manual and, as applicable,
linked to satisfactory completion of annual performance indicators:
- 15 -
(a) 
during the first twelve months after Effective Date, Loan proceeds shall
finance 100% of the Per-Capita Premia and disburse said amount for
each Eligible Enrolled Beneficiaries as certified by the SUS Audit;
(b) 
for the following twenty four months after the period referred to in
paragraph (a) above, Loan proceeds shall finance 100% of the Per-
Capita Premia, and disburse said amount in two installments, as follows:
(i) 50% for each Eligible Enrolled Beneficiaries as certified by the SUS
Audit; and (ii) the remaining 50% after the verification of the Borrower's
compliance with the performance indicators, as set forth in the relevant
Annual Performance Agreements and in the Operational Manual; and
(c) 
for the following twelve months after the period referred to in paragraph
(b) above, Loan proceeds shall financed 100% of the Per-Capita Premia
and disburse said amount in two installments, as follows: (i) 40% for
each Eligible Enrolled Beneficiaries as certified by the SUS Audit; and
(ii) 
the remaining 60% after the verification of the Borrower's
compliance with the Barema indicators, as set forth in the relevant
Annual Performance Agreements and in the Operational Manual.
The first Loan withdrawal application under Category (4) shall be presented to
the Bank by the Borrower as an advance and on the basis of a report prepared by
SESAB including a forecast of the number of Enrolled Eligible Beneficiaries for
the next six months. Each subsequent Loan withdrawal application under
Category (4) shall be presented to the Bank by the Borrower on a bi-annual basis
and the Borrower, through SESAB, shall, prior to the submission of each such
Loan withdrawal application, furnish to the Bank a separate report in accordance
with the provisions of the Operational Manual, confirming that the Per Capita
Premia under the previous Loan withdrawal application has been received by
SESAB.
For the purposes of the validation procedure referred to in paragraph 5 above, the
Borrower shall: 
(a) have the report referred to in said paragraph technically
audited in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by the SUS Audit, on a semester
basis in accordance with slandards specified in the Operational Manual and on
the basis of the performance indicators set forth in the Annual Performance
Agreements and the registiy of Enrolled Eligible Beneficiaries; and (b) use as
support documentation said audited reports provided by said technical audits, all
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, starting on the second year after Effective
Date, shall submit to th. Bank the Per-Capita Premium calculated and
established by SESAB in accordance with the methodologies and provisions
included in the original calculation agreed with the Bank. The Per-Capita
Premium shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and shall be
-16-
furnished to the Bank for each such period for approval not later than one month
after the end of such period.
9. 
The Borrower shall, prior to submitting each loan withdrawal application under
Categories (2), (3) and (4), furnish to the Bank the relevant reports and pertinent
documentation as referred :o in Section L.A 2 and 3 of this Schedule.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; 'Withdrawal Period
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. The Bank may consider granting an
extension of the Closing Date if the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has
informed the Bank that it agrees with such an extension.
Section V. 
Access to Information
The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any information related to the
Legal Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to information, in
effect at the time of such disclosure.
- 17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total prircipal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2015
through October 15, 2019 
1.00%
Beginning April 15, 2020 
2.00%
through October 15, 2024
Beginning April 15, 2025 
2.33%
through October 15, 2029
Beginning April 15, 2030 
3.33%
through October 15, 2034
Beginning April 15, 2035 
1.33%
through April 15,2039
on October 15, 2039 
1.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principa 
Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
- 18-
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts -ayable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the anount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schecule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Performance Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in Section III of this Appendix.
3. 
"Barema" is the composite oulcome indicator that includes 10 intermediate effectiveness
performance indicators created to measure improvements in quality and efficiency of
neonatal health care in Selectec Hospitals.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"CERB" means Companhia de Engenharia Ambiental da Bahia, the Borrower's
Environmental Engineering Company established pursuant to Decree No 22618,
November 5, 1971, as amended by Law No 11050, June 6, 2008.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised
in October 2006 and May 2010.
7. 
"Eligible Beneficiary" means z pregnant woman aged 10 to 19 years old.
8. 
"Enrolled Eligible Beneficiary"' means a pregnant woman aged 10 to 19 years old (an
Eligible Beneficiary) enrolled in the Borrower's SISPRENATAL.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework,
dated March 30, 2010, acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on
www.seplan.ba.gov.br, which sets forth, inter alia, the actions to manage/mitigate and/or
address the environmental and social impacts that may result from the carrying out of the
Project, which includes the Environmental Management Plan.
10. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated March 30, 2010,
acceptable to the Bank, for management of the environmental impacts that may result
from the carrying out of the Project, which includes environmental management plans,
and guidelines and procedures for natural habitats.
11. 
"Framework Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"General 
Conditions" means 
the "International 
Bank 
for 
Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
-20-
13. 
"Health Sector Outputs" means any of the outputs eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan as set forth in Section IV. A 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for
Part 1. A (i) of the Project in the numbers and typology included in the Operational
Manual and in the respective Framework Agreements.
14. 
"IID" means infectious intestinal diseases.
15. 
"IMR" means infant mortality rate.
16. 
"Indicators" means the impact., performance and implementation indicators agreed with
the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual, and in the Annual Performance
Agreements.
17. 
"Indigenous Peoples Framework" means the Borrower's framework dated March 30,
2010, acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on site
www.seplan.ba.gov.br, defining the guidelines and procedures for managing the impacts
of the Project on indigenous peoples, as well as for the preparation and carrying out of
any indigenous peoples plan.
18. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" means the plan dated March 30, 2010, acceptable to the Bank,
prepared by the Borrower for managing the impacts of the Project on indigenous peoples,
as published and available to the public on site www.seplan.ba.gov.br.
19. 
"INEMA" Instituto do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hidricos, established pursuant to Law
No. 12,212 of May 4, 2011.
20. 
"Neonatal" means children of less than 28 days of age.
21. 
"Non-Consultant Services" means services of non-intellectual nature that can be
procured on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs.
22. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section I.D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and approved by the Bank on August 24, 2010, as the same
may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
23. 
"Outputs" means any of the Health Sector Outputs and/or Water Sector Outputs.
24. 
"Participating Entities" means collectively SEPLAN, SESAB, CERB, INEMA and TCE.
25. 
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A lof Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
established pursuant to the Portaria SEPLAN no 121, dated August 11, 2010, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
26. 
"Per-Capita Premium" means 1he aggregated average amount of obstetric and Neonatal
health care services provided f:r each Enrolled Eligible Beneficiary, under Part 1.B of
the Project, as further detailed in the Operational Manual.
-21-
27. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May
2010.
28. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for Part 2 of the Project,
dated August 24, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
29. 
"Programa Nascer (PRO-NASCER)" is the Borrower's incentive program created as an
insurance premium mechanism to finance the achievements of quality and efficiency
delivered by the Borrower's Selected Hospitals, which program is regulated and
supervised by SESAB, and audited by the SUS Audit.
30. 
"Selected Hospitals" means ary of the Borrower's 25 hospitals that have been selected
following eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in Parts 1.B
and 2.B of the Project.
31. 
"Selected Municipalities" mears any of the Borrower's municipalities that have selected
following eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in Part 1.A
and B of the Project.
32. 
"SEPLAN" means Secretaria d9 Planejamento, the Borrower's Secretariat of Planning.
33. 
"Service Provider" means the Selected Hospitals.
34. 
"SESAB" means Secretaria da Sazide, the Borrower's Secretariat of Health.
35. 
"SISPRENATAL" means the Guarantor's system of pre-birth assistance control under
the SUS.
36. 
"SUS" means Sistema Unico de Sade, the Borrower's health system integrating federal,
state and municipal delivery systems regulated under the Guarantor's Law No. 8080
dated September 19, 1990, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
37. 
"SUS Audit" means the independent technical auditor referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
38. 
"TCE" means Tribunal de Contas do Estado, the Borrower's Court of Accounts.
39. 
"Unit Cost" means the average aggregated amount of goods, works, Non-Consultant
Services and consultants' services required for composing each of the Outputs, as further
specified in the Operational Manual.
40. 
"Water Sector Outputs" means any of the outputs eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan as set forih in Section IV. A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for
Part 1. A (ii) of the Project ir the numbers and typology included in the Operational
Manual and in the respective Framework Agreements.
- 22 -
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and
Interest
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of
the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association ("Preparation Advance"),
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding
balance of the advance as at th. date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to
pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall
pay the amount so withdrawn 10 itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance."
2. 
Paragraph (1) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 7.02. Suspension by th? Bank
... 
(1) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in
part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Bank or the
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration
by another financier that the Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project
Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project
financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such
financier that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent,
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
financing made by such financier."
3. 
The following terms and defini:ions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The term "Project Pr.paration Advance" is modified to read "Preparation
Advance" and its definition is modified to read as follows:
"'Preparation Advance' means the advance referred to in the Financing
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07."
-23-
(b) 
The definition of the term "Conversion Date" is modified to read as follows:
"'Conversion Date' means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in
the Conversion Guidelines."
(c) 
The definition of the term "Variable Rate" is modified, in relevant part, to read as
follows:
"(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an amount of
the Withdrawn Loan Balance that accrues interest at a variable rate during the
Conversion Period, the variable rate of interest applicable to such amount shall
be equal to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR, or such other base rate as may be
agreed by the Borrowe: and the Bank, for the Approved Currency; plus (B) the
spread to LIBOR or to such other base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the
Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the
Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the interest
rate component of the Screen Rate."
Section III. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:
1. 
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as
follows:
"... (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed by the
Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or entities
who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the individual or
entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination by such
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
coercive or collusive practices n connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing
made by such financier."
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:
"... (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank's sanctions policies and procedures (fnl3) a
Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or entity, including (but
not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible publicly, either
indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii)
to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-
contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the
project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in corrupt,
- 24 -
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection with the use of loan
proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has entered into an agreement for
the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person or entity
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise to
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in
part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower
or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive
practices in connection with 1he use of the proceeds of a financing made by such
financier."
Footnotes:
"13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank's sanctions
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
"14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines
or participate under paragraph 1 .11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines."
"15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose
of making such determinations The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank's website
and otherwise be made known :o staff and other stakeholders."
-25-
