LOAN NUMBER 8076-SV
Loan Agreement
(Strengthening Public Health Care System Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated tApfI \5(O 
.2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
A2 YI t 
O 
, 2012, 
between the REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars (US$80,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal or exceed
eight million Dollars (US$8,000,000) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to
a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through MINSAL, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MINSAL, shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expires on January 21,
2013.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Boulevard de los Heroes 1231
San Salvador
El Salvador
Facsimile:
(503) 2225 7491
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
AGREED at 6a,-, 
)Dac ", 
exWcAp c or 1 Sc1 kl. co,< 
, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC 
EL SALVADOR
B
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) expand the coverage, quality and equity in
utilization of priority health services provided under the RIISS; and (ii) strengthen MINSAL's
stewardship capacity to manage essential public health functions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Expansion of Priority Health Services and Programs
1 .
Strengthening the quality and delivery capacity of priority health services under the
RIISS through:
(a) 
the gradual implementation of the CPHC Strategy, which includes, inter alia, the
acquisition of medical equipment and the maintenance and minor rehabilitation
of facilities; and
(b) 
the improved delivery of selected priority public health programs, including
those addressing, inter alia, maternal health, reproductive and sexual health,
teenage pregnancy, child health, nutrition, dengue control, and chronic kidney
disease.
2. 
Supporting the implementation of the SEM in about 16 eligible hospitals (to be selected
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank) through, inter alia: (a) improving the
coordination between the national hospital system and other entities such as MINSAL,
ISSS, Ministry of Defense, the National Civil Police, FOSALUD, and the Red Cross; (b)
supporting the installation of a national call system for emergencies; (c) improving the
resuscitation room equipment and the ambulances fleet; (d) training of medical and
paramedic staff in the management of medical emergencies; and (e) strengthening
medical emergency response at the community level.
Part B: Institutional Strengthenin
1. 
Strengthening MINSAL's institutional and management capacity to perform essential
public health functions through, inter alia: (a) the improvement of the SUIS; (b) the
implementation of a national pharmaceutical policy aimed to enhance quality, efficiency
and security in the access of rational use of medicines as well as transparency in
procurement; and (c) the support of the activities of the National Health Institute
(including training of clinicians and lab technicians, surveillance, knowledge generation
and research) and the Central Laboratory; and
2. 
(a) Developing an emergency preparedness plan for Public Health Emergencies; and (b)
implementing said plan through the financing of the Eligible Public Health Expenditures.
-4-
Part C: Project Management and Monitoring
1. 
Supporting: (a) the monitoring of the Project activities through semi-annual, external
technical reviews; (b) annual health facility surveys to assess the achievement of health
coverage and results targets; and (c) an impact evaluation.
2. 
Assisting the PCU in carrying out the management, monitoring and supervision activities
of the Project, including training and financial audits.
3. 
Strengthening UACI and UFI, the units performing the Project's fiduciary activities.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1 
Until completion of the Project the Borrower, through MINSAL, shall maintain the
following units within MINSAL with staff, structure and functions satisfactory to the
Bank as described in the Project Operations Manual:
(a) 
a Project Coordination Unit (the PCU) reporting directly to the Minister of
MINSAL and responsible for the day-to-day management of Project activities,
including: (i) preparing annual operational and procurement plans; (ii) overseeing
procurement processes in conformity with Bank's procedures; (iii) ensuring the
timely implementation of the operational and procurement plans; (iv) providing
all necessary technical inputs to Project activities; (v) ensuring efficient use of
project funds and resources; (vi) preparing semi-annual technical progress
reports; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation of Project results;
(b) 
an Institutional Procurement and Contracting Unit (the UACI), reporting directly
to the general operations manager of MINSAL and responsible for carrying out
the procurement necessary for the Project activities, including: (i) preparing and
updating as necessary an annual procurement plan, based on the annual
operational plan; (ii) purchasing goods and medical supplies; and (iii) recruiting
consultants needed for technical assistance; and
(c) 
an Institutional Financing Unit (the UFI), reporting directly to the general
operations manager of MINSAL and responsible for the financial management of
the Project, including: (i) budget formulation and monitoring; (ii) cash flow
management, including processing payments and submitting loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank; (iii) maintenance of accounting records, including the
administration and maintenance of an inventory of project assets; (iv) preparation
and submission of in-year and year-end financial reports; (v) oversight of
information systems; and (vi) organization of financial and operational audits.
2. 
Prior to carrying out any activities under Part B2 of the Project, the Borrower, through
MINSAL, shall:
(a) 
carry out all assessments required by the Bank (under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and with scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank) and
prepare and implement all plans required by the Bank (under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and with scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank); and
(b) 
submit to the Bank, for the Bank 's review and approval: (i) a proposed list of the
goods, Consultant Services and Non-Consultant Services proposed to be financed
under Category (3) of the Project (including a procurement plan); and (ii) an
-6-
estimated flow of funds needs. The Borrower, through MINSAL, shall carry out
Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with the list and estimated flow of funds
needs above-referred.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MINSAL, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards and Operational Manual
The Borrower, through MINSAL, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of:
(a) 
the Environmental Management Plan;
(b) 
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and
(c) 
a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, that will include, inter alia: (i) the procedures
for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (ii) the indicators
to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation; (iii) the organizational structure
of the Project, including the structure and terms of reference of personnel of the
PCU, the UACI and the UFI; (iv) the Project procurement and financial
management requirements and procedures; (v) the Project's disbursement and
auditing procedures; (vi) the list of Eligible Public Health Expenditures to be
financed under Part B.2 (b) of the Project; and (vii) the list of the Borrower's
hospitals where Part A.2 of the Project will be carried out. In case of any
inconsistency between any provision of the Project Operations Manual and this
Agreement, the provision of this Agreement will prevail. Any amendment to the
Project Operations Manual can occur only if acceptable to the Bank.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower, through MINSAL, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Project Operations
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than 45 days after the Closing Date.
-7-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MINSAL, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through
MINSAL, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MINSAL, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. 
All Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All Consultants' Services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, Goods and Non-Consulting Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services. 
The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for Goods and Non-Consulting services. The
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be
used.
-8-
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
Consultants' Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for Consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single Source Selection of Consulting Firms
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's Prior
Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower, through MINSAL, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from
time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-9-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, Works, Non- 
45,000,000 
100%
consultant Services,
Consultants' Services,
Training and Operating Costs
under A.1 and A.2 of the
Project
(2) Goods, Non-Consultant 
26,400,000 
100%
Services and Consultants'
Services under Part B.1 and
B.2 (a) of the Project
(3) Eligible Public Health 
5,000,000 
100%
Expenditures under Part B.2
(b) of the Project
(4) Goods, Works, Non- 
3,400,000 
100%
Consultant Services,
Consultants' Services,
Training and Operating Costs
under Part C.1, C.2 and C.3 of
the Project
(5) Front-end Fee 
200,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
80,000,000
For purposes of this paragraph:
(a) 
the term "Non-Consultant Services" means logistical service expenses for
capacity building events, printing of training materials and media campaigns, as
well as other services which are not rendered by consultants, obtained at
reasonable cost on account of Project implementation and which are not covered
in the definition of Training and Operating Costs;
(b) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the operational costs (which would not have
occurred absent the Project, including, inter alia, equipment and computer
maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and communication costs) and the
-10-
supervision and monitoring costs of the Project incurred by the PCU, UACI and
UFI (including, inter alia, travel, per diem, accommodation, operation and
maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel, spare parts and insurance, maintenance of
the monitoring and information system, supervisory and quality control activities,
but excluding expenditures for salaries and related benefits); and
(c) 
the term "Training" means reasonable: (a) travel, room, board and per diem
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training
and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility
rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and
distribution expenses.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
under Part B.2 unless: (i) a Public Health Emergency has been declared by
MINSAL; and (ii) the Borrower has provided a letter to the Bank including: (A)
legal evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of the declaration of a Public Health
Emergency; (B) a list of the Goods, Consultants' and Non-Consultant Services
proposed to be financed under Category (3) of the Project to address the needs of
the Public Health Emergency (including a procurement plan) acceptable to the
Bank; and (C) the estimated flow of funds needs.
2. 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that, in the event that the condition referred in
Section B. 1 (a) above has not been met and either two-thirds of the total amount of the
loan have been disbursed or any funds allocated to Part B.2 remain unwithdrawn by a
date thirty-six (36) months after the Effective Date (whichever comes first), the Bank
may, at the request of the Borrower, reallocate such amounts to other parts of the Project
as agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
By January 30, 2014, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower, through
MINSAL, shall:
1. 
Carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of operations
under the Project (Midterm Review). The Midterm Review shall cover the progress
achieved in the implementation of the Project.
2. 
Following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take corrective action as
shall be recommended by the Bank.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2016
through February 15, 2041 
2%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-12-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by 3RD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Central Laboratory" means the Max Bloch national laboratory operated by MINSAL,
established through Ministerial Decree No. 661 of December 5, 2006 issued by
MINSAL.
4. 
"CPHC Strategy" means the Comprehensive Primary Health Care Strategy prepared by
MINSAL on June 1, 2009, aimed at improving the Borrower's health care system, which
includes the following components: (i) the adoption of a multisectoral approach on
primary health care; (ii) the involvement of local communities in the management of
local health care services; and (iii) the use of the RISS.
5. 
"Consultant 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment 
of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
published by the Bank in January 2011.
6. 
"Eligible Public Health Expenditures" means the expenditures to be financed with Loan
proceeds under Part B.2(b) of the Project (including medical supplies and equipment;
contracting of temporary staff such as nurses, physicians, environmental health inspectors
and community health promoters; land and water; transportation equipment; fuel and
petroleum products; telecommunication equipment; food and water containers and any
other items which may be acceptable to the Bank and agreed to by the Borrower, through
MINSAL, and the Bank) and listed in the Project Operations Manual, and thus said set of
expenditures constitute a subset of the Eligible Expenditures defined in the General
Conditions.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means MINSAL's environmental management plan
dated October 2010, published in the Bank's InfoShop on March 22, 2011 and on
MINSAL's website on March 10, 2011, as such plan may be amended from time to time
with the prior approval of the Bank, which includes recommendations to, inter alia: (i)
provide training for the MINSAL staff on bio-hazard waste management; (ii) establish
procedures on hospital waste management; (iii) acquire equipment for the disposal of bio-
hazard waste; and (iv) conduct environmental diagnostic studies.
8. 
"FOSALUD" means Fondo Solidario para la Salud, the Borrower's health support fund
created through Decree No. 538 of December 17, 2004.
9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the 
"International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
-14-
10. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means MINSAL's indigenous people
planning framework dated February 2011, published in the Bank's InfoShop on March
22, 2011 and on MINSAL's website on March 10, 2011, as such framework may be
amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank, which includes
guidelines to, inter alia: (i) provide training for the MINSAL staff on cultural
appropriateness strategies; (ii) improve an informed consultation process; (iii) prepare
and carry out an indigenous peoples action plan, acceptable to the Bank, through which
indigenous peoples will receive culturally-sensitive and appropriate health services; (iv)
monitor and evaluate the effective implementation of the action plan mentioned in (iii)
herein; and (v) conduct mid-term and final evaluations of the social impact of the Project.
11. 
"ISSS" means Instituto Salvadoreho del Seguro Social, the Borrower's Social Security
Institute created through Decree No. 1263 of December 3, 1953.
12. 
"MINSAL" means Ministerio de Salud, the Borrower's Ministry of Health.
13. 
"National Health Institute" means the Borrower's scientific technical organization under
the guidance of MINSAL and aimed at improving the Borrower's population's health,
established through Ministerial Decree No. 9894 of September 13, 2010 issued by
MINSAL.
14. 
"SEM" means Sistema de Emergencias Medicas, the Borrower's national medical
emergencies system to be established and implemented by MINSAL in coordination with
ISSS; the Ministry of Defense; the National Civilian Police; and FOSALUD, and aimed
at ensuring the provision of pre-hospital care in emergency sites and the transfer of
injured people to heath care facilities.
15. 
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 2011.
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated April
28, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.C (c) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement and approved by the Bank on May 24, 2011.
19. 
"Public Health Emergency" means: a state of public health emergency declared by
MINSAL, through the issuance of a ministerial decree, in connection with catastrophic
disasters generated by natural geological phenomena, including, inter alia: earthquakes,
tsunamis, volcanoes and landslides; hydro-meteorological phenomena, including inter
alia: floods, hurricanes, El Nihlo/La Niia, and storm surges; epidemics and/or any other
disasters that might affect the health of the Borrower's population, as such state of public
-15-
health emergency is regulated by articles 139 and 184 of the Borrower's Health Code
(Codigo de Salud).
20. 
"RIISS" means the Integral and Integrated Health Care Services Network, MINSAL's
network of organizations aimed at providing integrated health services to the Borrower's
population, established through the Borrower's National Development Plan 2010 - 2014
(Plan Quinquenal de Desarrollo 2010 - 2014), approved by the President of the Republic
of El Salvador and published in November 2010.
21. 
"SUIS" means the Borrower's "Single Unified Health Information System", established
by MINSAL and aimed at centrally managing the data on patients, hospitals and health
facilities collected by MINSAL.
22. 
"UACI" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"UFI" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. 1 (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
