LOAN NUMBER 8117-BR
Loan Agreement
(Upgrading and Greening the Rio de Janeiro Urban Rail System Project -
Additional Financing for the Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit 2 Project -
Adicional ao Programa Estadual de Transportes - PET 2)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
Dated 6*pewmbat 5 , 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8117-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
5 , 2012, between - INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and the STATE
OF RIO DE JANEIRO ("Borrower") and for the purpose of providing additional
financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1 -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $600,000,000 (six hundred million
Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to partially finance the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Secretary of SETRANS.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
cc 0
such amount shall be dete mined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead bel calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior non-objection
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Minitry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through the Subsidiary Agreement, shall cause the Project to
be carried out by CENTRA\L in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is, carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that
CENTRAL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement to an extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, would
materially and adversely affect the achievement of the Project objective.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on July 26, 2013.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Paldcio Guanabara
Rua Pinheiro Machado, s/n
Rio de Janeiro - RJ, 22238-900
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-3773 / (55-21) 2334-3559
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do Minist6rio do Planejamento,
Orgamento e Gestdo
Esplanada dos Minist6rios, Bloco K - 50 andar
Brasilia - DF, 70040-906
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
Secretaria de Estado de Transportes
Avenida Nossa Senhora de Copacabana, 493 - 110 andar
Rio de Janeiro - RJ, 22031-000
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-21) 2333-8621
-3-
Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda
Avenida Presidente Vargas, 670 - 150 andar
Rio de Janeiro - RJ, 20070-000
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-4535
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
9 
, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of
the day and year first above kritten.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
0 
Vr
Authorized Representative
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
By
uthorize Representat ve
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the level of service provided to
suburban rail transport users in the RJMR in a safe and cost-efficient manner; (b) to place
the suburban rail transport system on a lower carbon growth path; and (c) to improve the
transport management and policy framework in the Borrower's territory and in the
RJMR.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment
1. 
Acquisition of an additional sixty (60) trains (EMUs) with four (4) cars each and
accessories, for a total of at least 360 (in the aggregate) cars to be operated on the
lines of CENTRAL's System, by the Concessionaire under the terms of the
Concession Contract.
2. 
Design and implementation of a non-motorized transport and greening
demonstration pilot program in selected stations of the CENTRAL System,
through the acquisition of 
bicycles required therefor.
Part B: Institutional and Policy Development
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to SETRANS for the carrying out of additional
studies on policy development, including, inter alia: (a) the design (but excluding
implementation) of a sustainable transport policy for the Borrower, including
measures to reduce the carbon growth path of transport and improve
environmental and social sustainability; (b) the design and implementation of a
strategy for the Borrower's territory and the RJMR passenger and freight
transport system, to adapt to the impacts of climate change, environmental and
social risks and liabilities, 
and natural disasters; 
(c) the design and
implementation of a center to monitor the impact of natural disasters on the
metropolitan public transport system, including those stemming from climate
change impacts; (d) the design (but excluding implementation) of a strategy to
improve the efficiency and to reduce the carbon footprint of the Borrower's
freight system and its environmental and social risks and liabilities; (e) the
carrying out of feasibility and detailed engineering studies (but excluding
implementation) for potential BRT corridors in the RJMR area which are not
competing with the rail-based transport; (f) the design (but excluding
implementation) of a transport-related, accident-reduction policy to make the
Borrower's transport system safer; (g) the design (but excluding implementation)
of an updated strategy for SETRANS to carry out consultations with stakeholders
to improve its transport reform planning process; (h) the carrying out of an
-5-
evaluation study to assess the social, economic and environmental impact of the
Project, particularly on carbon emissions; and (i) the carrying out of studies to
support the implementation of Part A.2 of the Project.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to CENTRAL for Project management and
supervision, including the acquisition and reception of the trains (EMUs).
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to implement the
Project in accordance with the Procurement Plan and to maintain, at all times
during the execution and until completion of the Project, a Project management
unit to be responsible for monitoring of Project implementation and for the
overall coordination of the Project (the "PMIG"). The PMIG shall have staff,
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes
of assisting CENTRAL in the implementation the Project. The PMIG shall be
headed at all times by a Project coordinator with qualifications, experience,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, who shall report directly
to the Director-President of CENTRAL.
2. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through SETRANS, shall,
and shall cause CENTRAL to, comply with the provisions of the Subsidiary
Agreement, which agreement sets forth the respective responsibilities of the
Borrower and CENTRAL in the implementation of the Project including, inter
alia:
(a) 
CENTRAL's responsibility to procure the goods and services under the
Project and to comply with the safeguard, technical, fiduciary and other
requirements of this Agreement applicable to the Project; and
(b) 
the Borrower's responsibility, through its relevant agencies, to comply
and/or ensure compliance by the Concessionaire with the safeguard,
technical, fiduciary and other requirements of this Agreement applicable
to the Project.
3. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-7-
C. 
Environmental and Social Provisions
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower, through SETRANS, shall carry out, and shall cause
CENTRAL and the 
Coacessionaire to carry out, the Project in accordance
with the provisions and recommendations 
of the 
Project's 
Environmental
Management Plan (including provisions regarding pest management and physical
cultural resources) and the Resettlement Action Plan.
2. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall ensure that the terms of reference for
any 
consultancy in respect of any activity under Part B of the Project shall be
satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such
terms of reference shall duly 
require that the advice conveyed through such
consultancy or technical assistance be 
consistent with the requirements of the
applicable Bank Safeguard Policies.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
the indicators agreed with the Bank ("Indicators"). Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than three months afte- the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to maintain a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to prepare and furnish to the Bank
not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
-8-
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods and Non- Consulting Services. All goods and Non-Consulting Services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods and Non-Consulting Services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Service. The
following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, 
other than
International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and Non-
Consulting Services. The Procurement Plan shall 
specify 
the
circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including, in respect of goods and Non-
Consulting Services, pregdo eletr6nico set forth in the Guarantor's Law).
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject
to the following additional procedures, namely that the bidding documents
shall be acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Shopping including in respect of goods and Non-Consulting Services,
pregdo eletr6nico set forth in Guarantor's Law.
-9-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstarces under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS)
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications (CQS)
(c) Least Cost Selection (LCS)
(d) Single-Source Selection (SSS)
(e) Quality-based Selection (QBS)
(f) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
[. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article 1.[ of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bark Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragra,h 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 10 -
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(1) Goods and Non-Consulting
Services (including
warehousing of the trains) 
570,293,640 
100%
for Parts A.1 and A.2 of the
Project
(2) Consultants'
services for Parts B of the 
29,706,360 
100%
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
600,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 120,000,000
equivalent may be made 
for payments made within one year prior
to this date but on or after October 26, 
2011 (but in no case more than
one year prior to the date of this Agreement), for 
Eligible
Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017. The Bank shall only grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank
that it agrees with such extension.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
[. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first 'rincipal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May15 and Novemberl5
Beginning Noverrber 15, 2017
through May 15, 2041 
2.04%
On November 15, 2041 
2.08%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Da:e shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 12 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 13 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corraption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised on January 2011.
2. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4 36, and 4.37 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmegnual.
3. 
"BRT" means Bus Rapid Transit, a bus system operating in segregated or
reserved road lanes.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"CENTRAL" means Companhia Estadual de Engenharia de Transportes e
Logistica, S.A., the Borrcwer's transport engineering and logistics company
responsible for urban train transportation, established pursuant to the CENTRAL
Legislation.
6. 
"CENTRAL Legislation" means the Borrower's Decree No. 27898 dated March
9, 2001, and Borrower's Decree No. 28313 dated May 11, 2001, as amended and
complemented by the M:nutes of the Extraordinary General Assembly of
CENTRAL, dated May 30, 2001.
7. 
"CENTRAL's System" means the railway network in RJMR (as hereinafter
defined) comprising: (a) five main broad gauge electrified corridors (Deodoro,
Japeri, Santa Cruz, Leopoldina and Belford Roxo); and (b) three corridors non-
electrified, in meter gauge (Vila Inhomirim, Guapimirim and Niter6i-Visconde
de Itaborai).
8. 
"Concession Contract" means the contract entered into between the Borrower
and the Concessionaire (as hereinafter defined), dated September 17, 1998, as
amended to date, with CENTRAL, as a third interested party, governing the
concession awarded to such Concessionaire to operate, manage and maintain the
CENTRAL's System (as herein defined).
9. 
"Concessionaire" means th. consortium (which at present is SuperVia) to which
the Borrower has awarded the concession to operate, manage and maintain the
CENTRAL's System pursuant to the terms of the Concession Contract.
- 14 -
10. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
11. 
"EMUs" means electrical multiple units.
12. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan for assessment and
management of the Project environmental and social impacts and risks, dated
July 1, 2011, and set forth in the Concessionaire's website (which at present is
www.supervia.com.br) and in SETRANS website.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
14. 
"Indicators" means the impact, performance and implementation indicators
agreed with the Bank and set forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith,
as such letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
15. 
"Non-Consulting Services" means services which are of non-intellectual nature
and that can be procured on the basis of performance of measurable physical
outputs, including, inter alia, market surveys.
16. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the agreement dated September 24, 2009,
between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 7719), as amended.
17. 
"Original Project" means the Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit 2 Project, which
objectives and activities are set forth in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
18. 
"PMIG" means the Project management unit (Coordenadoria Executiva de
Gerenciamento e Implantagdo de Programa/BIRD- CEGIP) referred to in
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established pursuant to Resoluqdo
de Diretoria Executiva No. 0179/07, dated March 28, 2007.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated October 27, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
- 15 -
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; 
or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
22. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" (RAP) means the Borrower's action plan dated
October 6, 2011, publiEhed and available to the public on the website
Concessionaire's Website (which at present is www.supervia.com.br) and in
SETRANS website, for assessment and management of the involuntary
Resettlement, which sets forth the resettlement principles and policies,
institutional responsibilities, eligibility criteria, alternative 
compensations,
schedule of implementation, budget, grievance mechanisms, and monitoring and
evaluation actions.
23. 
"RJMR" means Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region, an area comprising the
following municipalities of the Borrower: (i) Rio de Janeiro; (ii) Belford Roxo;
(iii) Duque de Caxias; (iv) Guapimirim; (v) Itaborai; (vi) Itaguai; (vii) Japeri;
(viii) Mangaratiba; (ix) Mesquita; (x) Mag6; (xi); Nil6polis; (xii) Niter6i; (xiii)
Nova Iguacu; (xiv) Para.ambi; (xv) Queimados; (xvi) Sio Goncalo; (xvii) Sdo
Jodo de Meriti; (xviii) Serap6dica; (xix) Tangui; and (xx) Maricd.
24. 
"SETRANS" means Secretaria de Estado de Transportes do Rio de Janeiro, the
Borrower's Secretariat of Transport.
25. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" (Instrumento Particular de Contrato Subsididrio ao
Contrato de Empristimo Externo) means the agreement dated November 29,
2011, between the Borrower, through SETRANS, and CENTRAL as referred to
in Section I.A.2 of Schecule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
- 16 -
