OFFICtAL
DOCUMETS
LOAN NUMBER 8193-HR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Export Finance Intermediation Loan Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CROATIAN BLNK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October ;Zq 
,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8193-HR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
Odob e- 
.29q , 2012, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and CROATIAN
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Borrower") for the
purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requIres otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend tc the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred 
to 
in 
this 
Agreement, 
the 
amount 
of fifty 
million 
Euro
(EUR 50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by tle Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread ;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
-2-
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set f:)rth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower ma) at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of thc Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of tre principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits or the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion rcquested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cary out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon t.e provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower arid the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Act or the Statement of Policy has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, the
event specified in Section .01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
at least one Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and an Original PB has
either been amended, or a new Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and an
Original PB has been signed, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
amendment to the Subsiciary Loan Agreement or the new Subsidiary Loan
Agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement has
been duly authorized by ':he Borrower and the respective Original PB and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Original PB in accordance with its
terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Executive Director of the Borrower's Fund
Managing Division.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Croatian Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Strossmayerov trg 9
10000 Zagreb
Republic of Croatia
Facsimile:
(385-1) 4597-882
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 1o)oo 4cthr\
Title:ccu4N kctwpr
CROATIAN BANK 0
RECONSTRUCTIO 
D(EVELOPMENT
By
zed Representative
Name: 
VI 
C A
Title: 1 dev 
Vl 
( 
1 
WAL&O(
By 
ative
Name: ~(kAwA 
r Voy c.
Title: AifXCtJ~e 
T.eo
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the preservation and growth of exports
by providing medium- and long-terrn working capital and investment finance to exporters
and foreign exchange earning enter:rises.
The Project consists of the Original Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
I. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, until the
completion of the Project, the PIU, and ensure that the PlU functions at all times in a
manner and with staffing and budgetary resources satisfactory to the Bank and suitable to
enable it to implement the Project, including compliance under the Project with all of the
Bank's fiduciary and safeguard requirements.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Operational Manual in form and content
satisfactory to the Bank: (ii) duly perform all its obligations under the Operational
Manual; and (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or any
provision thereof without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank.
3. 
For the duration of Projeci implementation, the Borrower shall submit, not later
than August 15 and June 30 of each year, respectively, a compliance certificate
confirming ongoing compliance with the laws and regulations of the Guarantor
applicable to the Borrower and providing information on agreed-upon prudential ratios,
as certified by the Borrower's management on a semi-annual basis as of June 30 and
December 31 of each Fiscal Year.
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
select PBs pursuant to the criteria set forth in paragraph B.1 of this
Section;
(b) 
relend to each PB 1-he equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Category (1) set forth in Section IV.A of this Schedule under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into be-ween the Borrower and each PB, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include without
limitation, those set forth in paragraphs B.2, B.3, B.4 and B.5 of this Section;
(c) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the aggregate
amount of all Sub-loans provided to any one Beneficiary Enterprise, or group of
connected Beneficiary Enterprises, from all PBs, including any Sub-loans made under the
Original Project, shall not exceed the equivalent of Euro 10,000,000;
(d) 
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the
PBs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements in
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
-8-
(e) 
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part to
enable the PBs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all th, obligations of the PBs therein set forth, and not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
and
(f) 
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Guarantor and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan, and, except as the Ban< shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof.
B. 
Criteria, Terms and Conditions of On-lending to PBs
The criteria and principal terms and conditions set forth in this Section I.B shall
apply for the purposes of paragraph 4 of Section I.A of this Schedule.
Eligibility Criteria
1. 
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a PB, duly established
and operating in the territory of tl e Guarantor, in respect of which the Borrower shall
have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, that:
(a) 
the PB, during the duration of its Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i) 
is in compliance with applicable banking laws and prudential
regulations of the Guarantor as confirmed in the semi-annual
financial reports submitted by the PB's management and duly
certified by the PB's auditors at the end of each Fiscal Year of
the PB;
(ii) 
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower, and the
Guarantor, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures;
(iii) 
has agreed to submit to the Borrower not later than six (6)
months after the end of each Fiscal Year, an audit report which,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree: (A) covers two (2) full
years of its operations; (B) is prepared by an independent audit
firm in accordance with International Auditing Standards, the
International Financial Reporting Standards, or other statutory
requirements for banks operating in the Guarantor's territory;
and (C) contains an unqualified audit opinion;
-9-
(iv) 
has 
adequate 
organization, 
management, staff and other
resources necessary for its efficient operation, including an
acceptable level of loan collection; and
(v) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation
and supervision of the procurement and environmental elements
of Sub-projects.
Terms
2. 
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to a PB under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be: (a) denominated in Euro, Kuna, or Kuna indexed to
Euro; and (b) the equivalent in Euro or Kuna (determined as of the date or respective
dates of repayment of the principal amount of the Loan specified in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement) on account of the cost of goods, works and non-consulting services to be
financed under the Subsidiary Loan out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to Category (1).
3. 
Each Subsidiary Loan s)all: (a) be charged on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from lime to time, interest at a rate equal at a minimum to the
interest rate of the cost of the LoLn to the Borrower plus an on-lending margin reflecting
the Borrower's administrative costs; and (b) be repaid in accordance with an amortization
schedule, as set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, calculated to have a maturity of
not less than five (5) years and no: exceeding the maturity of the Loan.
4. 
The right of a PB to u:se the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be: (i)
suspended upon failure of the PB to perform any of its obligations under its Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with any of the eligibility criteria set
forth in Section I.B of this Schedule; and (ii) terminated if such right shall have been
suspended pursuant to subparagraDh (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.
Conditions
5. 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which
each PB shall undertake to:
(a) 
carry out activities under the Project and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients
of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, with qualified management and staff in
adequate numbers, and in conformity with the investment and lending policies and
procedures referred to in the Operational Manual, and provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and othe- resources required for the purpose;
- 10-
(b) 
(i) 
make Sub-loans to Beneficiary Enterprises on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, including,
without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Section
I.C of this Schedule;
(ii) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
aggregate amount of all Sub-loans 
provided to any one
Beneficiary Enterprise, or group of connected Beneficiary
Enterprises, including any Sub-loans made under the Original
Project, shall not exceed the equivalent of Euro 10,000,000;
(iii) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the
Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank, comply with its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
achieve the purposes of the Project;
(iv) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements
providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the
prior approval of the Borrower;
(v) 
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the
carrying out by the Beneficiary Enterprises of Sub-projects, in
accordance with the Operational Manual;
(vi) 
screen proposed Sub-projects, and, before approving a Sub-
project: (aa) ensure that each Beneficiary Enterprise has carried
out an appropriate environmental assessment for each Sub-
project and prepared an adequate environmental management
plan, if required under the EMF and the Operational Manual,
including satisfactory evidence of consultations held and of
adequate disclosure of said plan, or, if not so required provided a
satisfactory explanation as to why an environmental assessment
and environmental management plan is not required for said
Sub-project, all in accordance with the provisions of the EMF
and Operational Manual and (bb) verify (through its own staff,
outside experts, or existing environmental institutions) before
approving 
a Sub-project that the Sub-project meets the
environmental requirements of appropriate national and local
authorities and 
is consistent with the Bank's applicable
environmental assessment and safeguard policies and complies
with the E \4F and the environmental review procedures set forth
in the Ope-ational Manual;
(vii) 
require each Beneficiary Enterprise applying for a Sub-loan to
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing that the Sub-
project in iespect of which the application has been prepared is
in compliance with the EMF and the environmental review
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual;
(viii) 
ensure that for Sub-projects which require an environmental
management plan, the Beneficiary Enterprise shall carry out such
environmental management plan in a timely and appropriate
manner, requiring such environmental management plan to be in
compliance with: (aa) the EMF and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank; and (bb) the applicable laws and
regulations of the Guarantor relating to health, safety and
environmental protection, and shall include adequate information
on the carrying out of such environmental management plans in
the progress reports referred to in subparagraph (c) (ii) of this
paragraph; and
(ix) 
ensure that: (aa) goods, non-consulting services, and works to be
financed oit of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule;
and (bb) stch goods, non-consulting services and works shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project.
(c) 
(i) 
exchange vi -ws with and furnish all such information to the Bank
or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank and
the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its activities under
the Project, the performance of its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary .oan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Project;
(ii) 
prepare and submit to the Borrower semi-annual reports on Sub-
loan disbursements and repayments, and annual reports on the
progress made in achieving the objectives outlined in the
business plans submitted with the Sub-loan applications; and
(iii) 
promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d) 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sounc accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition; and
- 12 -
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank such information concerning said records
and accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(e) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree: (i) open and
thereafter maintain on its books, n accordance with its normal financial practices and on
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, separate accounts to which it shall credit, as the case
may be, each payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal payments
under, any Sub-loan; and (ii) util ze all amounts so credited to said separate accounts, to
the extent they are not yet required to meet said PB's payment or repayment obligations
to the Borrower under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement, exclusively to finance additional
development projects to further the development of the Guarantor's export sector and
quasi export sector; and
(f) 
assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan.
C. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
The provisions of this Se-tion I.C shall be for the purposes of paragraph 5 (b) of
Section I.B of this Schedule.
1. 
The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be denominated in Euro, Kuna or
Kuna indexed to Euro and shall be made on terms and conditions, including those
relating to the maturity, foreign zurrency denomination, interest rate and other charges
determined in accordance with the PB's investment and lending policies and practices;
provided, however, that the interest rate to be charged on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, shall equal at least the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to th. Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this
Agreement and to the Subsidiary Loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (3) of
Section B of this Schedule plus an appropriate credit risk margin acceptable to the Bank
and that the foreign exchange risk, if any, shall be borne by the PB.
2. 
No expenditures for a Sub-project by a PB shall be eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a) 
the first two Sub-loans by an Additional PB for such Sub-Project shall
have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the Borrower shall have
received the application and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Section in
respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b) 
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been, respectively, a free-
limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty (180)
days prior to the date on which the Borrower shall have received the request and
- 13 -
information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Section in respect of such free-limit
Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a "free-limit Sub-loan" shall be a Sub-
loan, other than the first two Sub-loans by each Additional PB, and other than any Sub-
loan to a Beneficiary Enterprise in an amount exceeding the sum of Euro 5,000,000
equivalent (when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Original Loan to the same Beneficiary
Enterprise), the foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Bank; or
(c) 
any Sub-loan to a Beneficiary Enterprise in an amount exceeding the
sum of Euro 5,000,000 equivalent (when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed
or proposed to be financed out o' the proceeds of the Loan and the Original Loan to the
same Beneficiary Enterprise), the foregoing amount being subject to change from time to
time as determined by the Bank, shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d) 
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of sub-
paragraphs 2 (a), (b) and (c) shall be presented to the Bank on or before March 1, 2015.
3. 
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for
approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, containing:
(i) 
an appraisal of the Beneficiary Enterprise and of the Sub-project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed Dut of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) 
the propcsed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan;
(iii) 
evidence of compliance with the Operational Manual and
specifically with the EMF and environmental review procedures
set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(iv) 
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4. 
(a) 
Sub-loans shall be made only to a Beneficiary Enterprise which shall
have established and maintained (luring the duration of its Sub-loan to the satisfaction of
the Borrower that:
(i) 
it is a Private Enterprise that is an Exporter or a Foreign
Exchange Earning Enterprise;
(ii) 
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization,
management, staff and financial and other resources required for
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying
- 14-
out of the Sub-project, including without limitation: (A) a
maximum debt/equity ratio of 85:15 (after receipt and for the first
three years for each Sub-loan > E 1,000,000, after receipt and for
the first year for each Sub-loan 5E 1,000,000), unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank; (B) after receipt of the Sub-loan, it
generates enough cash during the pay-back period of the Sub-
loan to maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio of at
least 1.1:1 (after receipt and for the first three years for each Sub-
loan > E 1,000,000, after receipt and for the first year for each
Sub-loan <6 1,000,000), unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
(b) 
For purposes of this paragraph:
(i) 
an enterprise shall be considered to be a "Private Enterprise"
when more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares or other equity
interest thereof is held by persons or companies other than the
Guarantor, any agency or subdivision thereof, or any local
governmental authority, or entities controlled by the Guarantor
or such agencies or subdivisions;
(ii) 
an enterprise shall be considered to be an "Exporter" when it is a
business entity that generates foreign exchange export revenues;
(iii) 
an enterprise shall be considered to be a Foreign Exchange
Earning Enterprise when it is a quasi-exporter, such as tourism
and logisti-,s firms, and the business entity can demonstrate that
a predefined share of its income comes from sales of goods and
services to non-resident companies or individuals;
(iv) 
the term "debt/equity ratio" means the proportion of total
liabilities and equity the enterprise uses to finance its assets; and
(v) 
"debt service coverage ratio" means the 
coverage of interest
expense with earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT/interest
expense).
5. 
The Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the
basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank set
forth in the EMF and Operational Manual:
(a) 
to 
be 
technically 
feasible 
and 
economically, 
financially 
and
commercially viable; and
(b) 
(i) to be in compliance with the requirements pertaining to environmental
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor and the
- 15-
environmental review procedure:, of the Bank as set forth in the EMF and Operational
Manual; and (ii) not to fall within the exclusions under the EMF or Operational Manual,
including, but not limited to, any Sub-projects: affecting international waterways
according to the Bank's policy "Projects on International Waterways"; involving the
construction and rehabilitation of dams according to the Bank's policy "Safety of Dams";
involving the involuntary taking of land resulting in relocation or loss of shelter, loss of
assets or access to assets, loss of income sources or means of livelihood, or involving the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas according
to the Bank's policy "Involuntary Resettlement"; or likely to have significant adverse
environmental 
impacts 
that 
are 
sensitive, 
potentially 
irreversible, 
diverse, 
or
unprecedented, that would be classified as 'Category A' in accordance with the Bank's
policies and procedures.
6. 
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PB shall obtain, by written
contract with the Beneficiary Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect its interests aid those of the Bank, the Borrower, and the Guarantor,
including the right to:
(a) 
require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out and operate the facilities
financed under the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards, the provisions of Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and to
maintain adequate records;
(b) 
without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding
paragraph (a), require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out and operate the Sub-project
with due regard to applicable social impact, ecological, environmental and pollution
control standards and in accordance with the provisions of the EMF and the Operational
Manual and any site-specific environmental management plan prepared for the Sub-
project, if required;
(c) 
for Sub-projects which need an environmental management plan, require
the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out such environmental management plan in a timely
manner;
(d) 
require: (i) that the goods, works and non-consulting services to be
financed out of the proceeds of tie Sub-loans shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section III of this Schedule; and (ii) that such goods, works and non-
consulting services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(e) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
- 16 -
(f) 
require that, in the case of a Sub-loan made to finance investment capital:
(i) the Beneficiary Enterprise shal I take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-Ican to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods;
(g) 
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Beneficiary Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-
project; and
(h) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with i:he PB.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
EMF and any site- specific environmental management plans, if required under the EMF,
and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the EMF
without prior approval by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that approval procedures for Sub-projects and
implementation of said Sub-projects comply with the provisions set forth in Sections
I.B.5(b)(vi)(vii) and (viii) and Sections I.C.5(b) and (c) of this Schedule.
3. 
Sub-projects excluded under the EMF and Operational Manual shall not be
eligible for financing, including but not limited to any Sub-projects:
(a) 
affecting international waterways, according to the Bank's policy
"Projects on International Waterways";
(b) 
involving the conEtruction and rehabilitation of dams according to the
Bank's policy "Safety of Dams";
(c) 
involving the involuntary taking of land resulting in relocation or loss of
shelter, loss of asscts or access to assets, loss of income sources or means
- 17-
of livelihood, or involving the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas according to the Bank's policy
"Involuntary Reseilement"; or
(d) 
likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts that are
sensitive, potentially irreversible, diverse, or unprecedented, that would
be classified as "Category A" in accordance with the Bank's policies and
procedures.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than two (2) months after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system, including records and accounts, and prepare its annual financial
statements and the Financial Statements, all in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions, adequate to reflect its operations and
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Project.
2. 
Without limitation on the Frovisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its annual financial statements and the Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of its annual financial statements and the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Borrower.
The Borrower's audited annual financial statements and audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
- 18 -
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement Ir ethods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Procurement in Loans to Financial Intermediary Institutions and Entities.
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be
used for procurement o§ goods, works and non-consulting services for those
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of Euro 10,000,000 or less per
contract, namely Well--stablished Private Sector Procurement Methods or
Commercial Practices wlich have been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (i) each contract for
goods, works and non-consulting services procured on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding; and (ii) the first contract to be financed under each of the first two
(2) Sub-loans made by each Additional PB. All other contracts shall be subject to Post
Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
- 19-
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to su:h instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
3. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to t.4e Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in the Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in EUR) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, and non- 
50,000,000 
100%
consulting services for Sub-
loans under the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed EUR 10,000,000
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after August
1, 2012, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); or
(c) 
under Category (1), unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance
with the criteria ar d procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and
on the terms and conditions referred to in paragraph B of Section I of this
Schedule 2.
2. 
The Closing Date is Augus: 31, 2015.
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Elate; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2019
through April 15, 2040 
2.33%
On October 15, 2040 
2.14%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amountE repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-21 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Paymer,t Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of s ich sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 22 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Act" means, collectively, the Guarantor's "Act on the Croatian Bank for
Reconstruction and Development" published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette
No. 138/06, pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is
operating as a development and export banking institution, and such other laws,
decrees, licenses, charter or regulations governing the operations of the Borrower
as may be adopted or enacted from time to time.
2. 
"Additional Participating Bank" or "Additional PB" means each PB under the
Project that is not an Original PB.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Beneficiary Enterprise" means an enterprise satisfying the appropriate criteria as
set forth in paragraph 4 of Section C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to which a
PB (as hereinafter defined, proposes to make or has made a Sub-Loan.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"EMF" or "Environmental Management Framework" means the framework
prepared and adopted by the Borrower for the Original Project, as updated, and
satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of: the set of mitigation, monitoring, and
institutional measures required for the Project and to be taken to eliminate
adverse environmental impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels,
as well as actions needed to implement said measures, including the measures
and information required for the preparation of site-specific environmental
management plans, as updated from time to time with the prior approval of the
Bank.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the
Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January I and ends on
December 31 in each calendar year.
9. 
"Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan proposed to be made in an amount less
than the threshold specified for prior Bank review under Section I.C.2 (b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreerr ent, for a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) which
- 23 -
qualifies to be approved by the Borrower in the absence of such prior review
pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph.
10. 
"International Auditing Standards" means the professional standards for the
performance of the financial audit of financial information issued by the
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
I1. 
"International Financial Reporting Standards" means the accounting standards
issued or endorsed by the International Accounting Standards Board.
12. 
"Kuna" means the legal currency of the Guarantor.
13. 
"Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators" means the agreed monitoring and
evaluation indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by
the Borrower to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and
the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved.
14. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual adopted by the Borrower on November
5, 2009 for the Original Project, as updated, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the operational and administrative
procedures to be followec. and applied for the Project and by the Participating
Banks (as hereinafter defired) in the preparation, approval, processing, financing,
implementation and supervision of Sub-loans and Sub-projects, as updated from
time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
15. 
"Original Loan" means the loan provided by the Bank to the Borrower under the
Original Loan Agreement (Loan Number 7774-HR).
16. 
"Original Loan Agreemeni" means the loan agreement for Loan Number 7774-
HR (Export Finance Intermediation Loan Project) between the Borrower and the
Bank, dated September 2, 2009, as amended up to and including the date of this
Agreement.
17. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
18. 
"Original Participating Bznk" or "Original PB" means a Participating Bank
selected by the Borrower under the Original Project and which has made at least
two (2) Sub-loans under the Original Project.
19. 
"Participating Bank" or "PB" means a private commercial bank registered
according to the applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor and selected by
the Borrower to participate in the Project pursuant to criteria set forth in
paragraph I of Section 1.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
- 24 -
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines' means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
21. 
"Statement of Policy" means the By-Laws of the Borrower dated March 2007
(restated) as amended to the date of this Agreement.
22. 
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating Bank,
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the
table set forth in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of
financing all or a portion Af the expenditures incurred by a Beneficiary Enterprise
for goods, non-consulting services and works under a Sub-Project.
23. 
"Sub-Project" means a specific development project, selected in accordance with
paragraph 5 of Section I.C. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which is proposed
to be carried out by a Beneficiary Enterprise, in whole or in part through the
utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
24. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered into
between the Borrower and a PB pursuant to Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
25. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower
to a PB out of the procceds of the Loan for the purposes of carrying out the
Project.
