InI
DOCUMuTS
LOAN NUMBER 8223-CO
Loan Agreement
(Second Pro 'ram natic Fiscal Sustainability and
Growth Re.iience Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated tee 
e 
, 20,
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
RWchef 4, 
2014, entered into between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agre,ment). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actiors which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroomnomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to th:m it the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amo int of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provision; of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty days after the Effective Elate.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the B,rrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Carrency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevan: previsions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoinj, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such ncn-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05, 
The Payment Dates are Februa -y 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule . to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan i i order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa;
or (B) all or any rortion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice ven a; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding fro n a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion reiluested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank siall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.06. 
Without limitation upon tie provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursu mt to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), tie Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such inibrmation relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.)8 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on :he Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in :arrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such ex change of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such det il as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
I to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01, 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen whic- 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out,
ARTICLE V- 
WFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provsions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
is-the date ninety (90) days jIter tfe date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the
eighteen (18) 
months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6,01. 
The Borrower's Representativ- is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public CreJit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 Bogoti D.C 
Piso 30
E-Mail: Desmin@minhacienda.gov,co
Facsimile: (571) 350 9344
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
6414f (MC[)
-4-
AGREED at 
', 
/as 
of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
inistry of Finance and Public Credit-N
AuthorizedLRep 
ntative
By
ational Plannin Department
Authorized Representative
INT ERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
/
Authorized Repres ntative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section 1. 
Actions under the Proram
A. 
The actions taken by the Boriower under the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower, throu;h MFPC has taken key steps to implement the Fiscal Rule
Law, including: (a) the publication of the 2012 Medium Term Fiscal Framework
Report; and (b) the i5suance of Decree No. 1790, dated August 28, 2012 (duly
published in the Borrower's official gazette on August 28, 2012), which, inter
alia, established a ccnsultative committee to monitor the implementation of the
Fiscal Rule Law by the Borrower's Executive Branch.
2. 
The Borrower, through M]PC, has issued the Implementing Regulations of Law
1430, to increase the Borrower's tax revenue, enhance the Borrower's tax system
efficiency and impros e the competitiveness of its economy.
3. 
The Borrower, through its Health Regulatory Commission, has issued the Accord
(Acuerdo) No. 29, dated December 28, 2011, which, inter alia: (a) updated the
Mandatory Benefit Package of both the contributory and subsidized regimes for
purposes of expandig th, coverage of health goods and services under said
regimes; and (b) intrcduced a list of healthcare goods and medical services to be
excluded from said Mandaiory Benefit Package.
4. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Health and Social Protection, has issued
Decree No. 4107, daied November, 2, 2011 (duly published in the Borrower's
official gazette on Novcmber 2, 2011), which, inter alia, established a
contingency fund for the Borrower's health insurance system for purposes of
ensuring the availability of sufficient funds available for contingencies, including
health emergencies sLemming from different types of natural and biological
epidemics or disasters
5. 
The Borrower, throigh MFPC, has approved and published a disaster risk
financing strategy, dat-d May, 2012, to reduce the Borrower's fiscal vulnerability
against the occurrence of natural disasters.
6. 
The Borrower, through MFPC, has issued Decree No. 4865, dated December 22,
2011 (duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on December 22, 2011),
which, inter alia, mo ified the reserve requirement of private insurance firms
providing insurance aE ainst earthquakes.
7. 
The Borrower has imp roved the institutional framework for its private agriculture
insurance market, thro igh: (a) the promulgation of Law No. 1450, dated June 16,
2011 (duly published iin the Borrower's official gazette on June 16, 2011) which,
inter alia, established a risl management framework to integrate adaptation and
mitigation strategies to improve production risks; (b) the issuance by the National
Agricultural Credit Commission of: (i) Resolution No. 1, dated August 23, 2011
-6-
(duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on September 2, 2011), which
inter alia, expanded the type of risks that qualify for public subsidies for
agriculture insurance premiums; and (ii) Resolution No. 1, dated May 16, 2012
(duly published in the Bcrrower's official gazette on May 16, 2012), which, inter
alia, preserved the voluntary access to insurance.
Section II. 
Availability of Loa: iProceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section aid such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche,
from which the Borrower mE y make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocations 
(expressed in USD)
(1) Single Withdrawal Trarche 
200,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payme it in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Releae Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated b,r the Borrower and acceptable to the Banlq and
2. 
the Borrower shall eisure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, .n a raanner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. TF e Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Exclud.d Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was usi,d to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly up)n notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such reques
shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2013.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Borrower shall repay the prin ipal amount of the Loan in full on August 15, 2030.
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" me.ms any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has fir ancel or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has fina iced or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Siatistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor gr:ups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
-9-
(d) 
for environmentally I azardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a par y;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
with respect to whicl the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices wcre ergaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
2. 
"Fiscal Rule Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 1473, dated July 5, 2011 (duly
published in the Borrower's c fficial gazette on July 5,2011) , which includes, inter alia:
(a) a numerical target for the Borrower's central government structural deficit; and (b)
provisions stipulating that the Bor:ower can deviate from this target only under special
circumstances, including naticnal emergencies or economic shocks.
3. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means te "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction and
Development General Condition; for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Sect on II of this Appendix.
4. 
"Implementing Regulations" mears the following decrees which were issued by the
Borrower's Ministry of FinanDe and Public Credit to implement Law 1430 (as defined
below): (i) Decree 493 dated February 23, 2011 (duly published in the Borrower's
official gazette on February 23, 2011); (ii) Decree No. 1919 of June 1, 2011 (duly
published in the Borrower's o ficial gazette on June 1, 2011); (iii) Decree No. 660 dated
March 10, 2011 (duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on March 10, 2011) ;
(iv) Decree No. 1505 dated My 9, 2011 duly published in the Borrower's official gazette
on May 9, 2011; (v) Decree No. 2245 dated June 
28, 2011 duly published in the
Borrower's official gazette or Jun, 28, 2011; (vi) Decree No. 2915 dated August 12,
2011( duly published in the B:rrower's official gazette on August 12, 2011) which was
modified by Decree No. 4955 cated December 30, 2011 (duly published in the
Borrower's official gazette on December 30, 2011) ; and (vii) Decree No. 1159 dated
June 1, 2012 (duly published ii the Borrower's official gazette on June 1, 2012).
5. 
"Law 1430" means the Borrower's Law No. 1430, dated December 29, 2010 and
published in the Borrower's Cfficihd Gazette on December 29, 2010, which, inter alia ,
reduced tax exemptions, closed tax loopholes and phased out the Borrower's financial
transaction tax.
6. 
"Mandatory Benefit Package" neans Plan Obligatoria de Salud, the Borrower's positive
list of healthcare goods (incluJing pharmaceuticals) and health services covered under
the Borrower's two health insurance regimes: (a) the contributory regime (defined
hereinafter); and (b) the subsidized regime, as defined in the Borrower's Laws No. 100,
dated December 23, 1993 and No. 1122, dated January 9, 2007, respectively.
-10-
7. 
"Medium Term Fiscal Framework Report" means the report for 2012 prepared and
published by MFPC on June 2012 which contains, inter alia, the fiscal projections of the
Borrower's structural fiscal balance for the period 2011-2023 period, including annual
targets.
8. 
"MFPC" means Ministeric de Hacienda y Cridito P6blico, the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit.
9. 
"National Agricultural Cred t Commission" means the Borrower's commission created
pursuant to article 5 of the Borrower's Law No. 16, dated January 22, 1990.
10. 
"Program" means the program oC actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustaina le reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated October 10, 201 Z from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
11. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Con litions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its cntire.y.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Ac.ounis) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Ex cution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial- Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Wor s and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Docume pts; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower sha.1 retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documentsi evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two years
after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records."
-11-
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.(7 (rc.numbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Mon toring and Evaluation
(c) 
The Borrowtr shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the
performance by the Loan Pa:ties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following now terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, witt the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the erm "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' ireans any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial tatements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (md all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemeI to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is madc."
-12-
