LOAN NUMBER 8158-MK
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Municipal Services Improvement Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(the Borrower)
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
r 
2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8158-MK
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
O X 
)e 
, 2012, between the Borrower and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of Euro thirty-seven million two
hundred thousand (EUR 37,200,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following namely that
the Project Operational Manual, including models of a Sub-loan Agreement and a
Grant Agreement, has been updated with the Bank's approval and adopted by the
Borrower.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-3 -
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Mito Hadzivasilev Jasmin No.50 1000 Skopje
Facsimile:
389 2 3106 779
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Skopje, as of the day and year first above written.
BORROWER
By
thorized Representative
Name: 
I7-(AN 
7[-AVP&E 
K 1
Title: Demd Y PEi 
INL5Tr-e ANfD
HjNINR 
'oP FTNAN ce
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: LIL\A 
ISUPUNQCiC
Title: 
IjOQK\i4C'lcp
-5 -
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve transparency, financial sustainability
and delivery of targeted municipal services in the Participating Municipalities.
The Project consists of the Original Project namely:
Component A: Municipal Investments
Provision of Sub-loans to the Participating Municipalities to finance Sub-projects
in the area of water and sanitation services, solid waste management and other
investments in municipal services with revenue-generating or cost saving potential or of
high priority to municipalities selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set
forth in the Project Operational Manual.
Component B: Capacity Building and Institutional Reform
1. 
Provision 
of consultants' 
services 
and 
Training 
to the 
Participating
Municipalities to assist with Sub-projects preparation and implementation.
2. 
Provision 
of consultants' 
services 
and 
Training 
to the 
Participating
Municipalities and their communal service enterprises to strengthen their capacity in
service provision, communications and public outreach activities and in meeting the
selection criteria for Performance-based Investment Grants under Component C of the
Project.
3. 
Institutional strengthening of the Borrower's national agencies through study of
policy issues and strategy development related to thematic areas such as the transparency
and financial sustainability of municipal services and the delivery of targeted municipal
services.
Component C: Performance-based Investment Grants
Provision of Performance-based Investment Grants to selected Participating
Municipalities that meet the performance criteria set forth in the POM as an incentive and
reward for improving the performance of municipal service delivery.
Component D: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the capacity of the PMU, Participating Municipalities and their
communal service enterprises for Project management, monitoring and evaluation
-6-
through the provision of goods, consultant services, including Project audit, Training, and
financing of Operating Costs.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project the Borrower shall maintain
the Project Coordination Committee with a composition, resources and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Throughout the duration of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU
responsible for overall management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of
the Project with a composition, staff, resources and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project
Operational Manual and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any
provision of said Manual without the prior approval of the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, including Sub-projects under
Components A and C of the Project, in accordance with the Environmental
Assessment Management Framework and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any
provision of said Frameworks without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no Loan proceeds are used to finance activities
which are excluded pursuant to the provisions of the POM and EAMF, including,
but not limited to, those expected to generate significant adverse, long lasting and
irreversible environmental effects.
3. 
For purposes of Sub-projects under Components A and C of the Project and prior
to the commencement of works for each proposed site, the Borrower shall: (a)
submit to the Bank for its approval: (i) the proposed site for said works and,
where required by the EAMF and/or LARPF, the related site-specific
environmental management plan, land acquisition and/or resettlement plan and
checklist, including satisfactory evidence of consultations held and of adequate
-8-
disclosure of said plans; (ii) said site-specific plans and checklist to be in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) the proposed contract for said
works to ensure that the provisions of said site-specific plans and checklist are
adequately included in said contract; and (b) ensure that such works are carried
out in accordance with the EAMF and/or LARPF and the site-specific
environmental management plan, land acquisition and/or resettlement plan and
checklist.
D. 
Sub-projects
1. 
Sub-projects under Components A and C of the Project shall be selected,
appraised, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the principles,
procedures and requirements set forth in the POM, Procurement and Consultants
Guidelines, Anti-Corruption Guidelines, EAMF and LARPF and any site-specific
environmental management plan, land acquisition and/or resettlement plan and
checklist.
2. 
The Borrower shall provide each Sub-loan or Grant to the selected Participating
Municipality on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall
include the following:
(a) 
each Sub-loan or Grant shall be denominated in Macedonian Denars;
(b) 
the total maturity of each Sub-loan shall not exceed thirteen (13) years,
including up to three (3) years of grace period, provided that the last
repayment date of each Sub-loan shall not exceed the last repayment date
of the Loan;
(c) 
the interest payable by a Sub-loan recipient shall be equal to the interest
payable by the Borrower to the Bank according to this Loan Agreement;
and
(d) 
under each Sub-loan Agreement and Grant Agreement the Borrower
shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank,
including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the respective Participating
Municipality to use the 
proceeds 
of the 
Sub-loan 
or
Performance-based Investment Grant, or obtain a refund of all or
any part of such Sub-loan or Grant, upon the Municipality's
failure to perform any of its obligations under the respective
Sub-loan or Grant Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Participating Municipality to: (A) carry out its Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
-9-
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental
and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank,
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds
other than the Borrower, the EAMF and the LARPF and any
site-specific environmental management plan, land acquisition
and/or resettlement plan and checklist; (B) provide, promptly as
needed, the resources required for the purpose of the Sub-
project; (C) procure the goods, works and services to be financed
out of the Sub-loan or Grant in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement, and Procurement and Consultant Guidelines;
(D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to
the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of
its objectives; (E): (1) maintain a financial management system
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's or
the Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the
Borrower and the Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records
and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and
the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the Sub-project.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Sub-loan Agreement and Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
- 10-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the requirements set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule 2
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
(b) 
Least Cost Selection
(c) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(d) 
Procedures for competitive selection of Individual Consultants
(e) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) 
Single-Source Selection of consulting firms
- 12 -
D. 
Operating Costs
Incremental expenditures included in the Operating Costs category can be
procured in 
accordance 
with the established Borrower's 
administrative
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to
Category 
(expressed in Euro) 
be financed
(1) Sub-loans under 
31,473,000 
100%
Component A of the
Project
(2) Goods, works, non- 
2,432,000 
100%
consulting services and
consultants' services and
Training for the Project
(3) Grants under Component 
2,902,000 
100%
C of the Project
- 13 -
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to
Category 
(expressed in Euro) 
be financed
(4) Operating Costs 
300,000 
100%
(5) Front-end Fee 
93,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
37,200,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2017.
- 14 -
Annex to Schedule 2
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with
the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in
procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures:
(a) 
Generalities
Bidding shall be conducted using "Open Procedures." Furthermore, restricted
procedure shall not be used without the express consent of the Bank and is subject to the
following conditions:
* 
the contracting authority shall invite all the candidates that meet the selection
criteria; and
* 
no maximum number of selected candidates shall apply.
(b) 
Registration
* 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
* 
Where registration is required, bidders: (1) shall be allowed a reasonable
time to complete the registration process; and (2) shall not be denied
registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-
qualification.
* 
Foreign bidders not from the territory of the Borrower shall not be precluded
from bidding. If a registration process is required, a foreign bidder declared
the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity to
register.
(c) 
Advertising, time for submission of bids
* 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national
daily newspaper. Invitations could be also advertised on the web sites of the
Public Procurement Bureau and respective ministry.
* 
Time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less
than thirty (30) days from the time of the invitation to bid or the date of
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later.
- 15 -
(d) 
Pre-qualification
* 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works,
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1)
widely circulated national daily newspaper. Invitations could be also
published on the web sites of the Public Procurement Bureau and respective
ministry.
* 
Time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less
than thirty (30) days from the time of the invitation to bid or the date of
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later.
* 
Minimum experience, and technical and financial requirements, shall be
explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.
(e) 
Participation of Publicly-owned enterprises
Publicly-owned enterprises shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting authority. Furthermore, they will
be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.
(f) 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank for procurement of goods and works.
(g) 
Bid Opening, Bid Evaluation and Contract Award
* 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder's
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened
simultaneously at the public bid opening.
* 
No bids shall be rejected at the bid opening except for late bids and bids shall
not be evaluated as part of bid opening process.
* 
The economic, financial and technical capacity of the bidders cannot be
guaranteed by another entity, except joint venture and observing those
criteria set up in the bidding documents.
* 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the quantifiable
criteria declared in the bidding documents and evaluation criteria other than
price shall be quantified in monetary terms.
* 
Bids not substantially responsive shall be rejected.
- 16 -
* 
Extensions of bid validity will be allowed once only for not more than thirty
(30) days.
* 
No further extensions shall be requested without the prior approval of the
Bank.
* 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the
lowest-evaluated and substantially responsive bid. No negotiation shall take
place.
(h) 
Rejection of all bids
All bids shall not be rejected and a new procurement process starts without the
Bank's prior concurrence.
(i) 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain an
appropriate price adjustment clause.
(j) 
Securities
* 
Bid security and performance security should follow the generally accepted
practice used in the local market.
* 
Alternative methods such as bid securing declaration may be acceptable, in
which case the Borrower may require bidders to sign a declaration accepting that
if they withdraw or modify their bids during the period of validity or they are
awarded the contract and they fail to sign the contract or to submit a performance
security before the deadline defined in the bidding documents, the bidder will be
suspended for bidding in any contract with the implementing unit.
* 
No advance payment shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance
payment security. These securities shall be included in the bidding documents in
a text and format acceptable to the Bank.
(k) 
Right to inspect and audit
Each contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that the
suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect
their accounts and records relating to the procurement and performance of the contract
and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. The
deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such
provision may amount to obstructive practice.
- 17 -
(1) 
Fraud & Corruption
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time determines
that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in executing,
a contract financed by the World Bank Group.
- 18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2017
through 
3.85%
August 15, 2029
On February 15, 2030 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
-19-
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"Environmental Assessment Management Framework" or "EAMF" means the
Environmental Assessment Management Framework adopted by the Borrower
and submitted to the Bank on November 11, 2008, and consisting of the set of
mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures and procedures required under
the Project, including Sub-projects under Components A and C of the Project, in
order to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement said
measures.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
6. 
"Grant 
Agreement" 
means a grant agreement between 
a Participating
Municipality and the Borrower represented by its Ministry of Finance for
provision of a Performance-based Investment Grant under Part C of the Project
executed in accordance with the requirements of Part D of Section I of Schedule
2 to this Agreement and in accordance with a model Grant Agreement
satisfactory to the Bank.
7. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework" or LARPF" means the
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework adopted by the Borrower
and submitted to the Bank on November 11, 2008, which establishes the potential
resettlement 
and compensation 
principles 
and procedures, organizational
arrangements and design criteria to be applied to the Project implementation in
compliance with the laws of the Borrower and the Bank's safeguards policy on
land acquisition and involuntary resettlement.
8. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental operating costs incurred by the PMU on
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including
dissemination of Project related information and publications, office rent and
-21-
utilities, insurance, maintenance and repair of office and equipment, insurance,
maintenance and repair of vehicles, local travel, communication, translation and
interpretation, bank charges, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated
with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank.
9. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Municipal
Services Improvement Project (Loan Number 7699-MK) between the Borrower
and the Bank, dated June 29, 2009.
10. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
11. 
"Participating Municipalities" means municipalities of the Borrower selected to
receive financing under the Project in accordance with the procedures and criteria
set forth in the Project Operational Manual.
12. 
"Performance-based Investment Grant" or "Grant" means a grant provided or
proposed to be provided by the Borrower to a Participating Municipality under
Component C of the Project.
13. 
"Project Coordination Committee" or "PCC" means the inter-ministerial
committee established by the Borrower for overall Project coordination and
supervision and referred to in paragraph I of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
14. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the project management unit
established by the Borrower within its Ministry of Finance for day-to-day Project
management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation and referred to in
paragraph 2 of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the operational manual adopted
by the Borrower under the Original Project, as revised and adopted pursuant to
Section 4.01, and setting forth the operational requirements, criteria, institutional
arrangements and operational procedures for the implementation of the Project,
including, inter alia, procurement, financial 
management, disbursement,
accounting, audit, environmental and social safeguards requirements, monitoring
and evaluation arrangements, Sub-projects selection criteria, Sub-loans and
Grants terms and conditions and processing procedures, as amended from time to
time in accordance with Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated March 9, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
- 22 -
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Sub-loan" means a subsidiary loan provided or proposed to be provided by the
Borrower to a Participating Municipality to finance a Sub-project under
Component A of the Project.
19. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means a sub-loan agreement between a Participating
Municipality and the Borrower represented by its Ministry of Finance for
provision of a Sub-loan under Part A of the Project executed in accordance with
the requirements of Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in
accordance with a model Sub-loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank.
20. 
"Sub-project" means an investment project in the area of water and sanitation
services, solid waste management or other investment in municipal services with
revenue-generating or cost saving potential or of high priority to municipalities
selected for financing under Component A or Component C of the Project in
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational
Manual.
21. 
"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service
providers' contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment
rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers,
trainers' fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs.
