OFFICIAL
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF080859-VN
Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement
(Distribution Efficiency Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET3M
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT /
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
Dated 
Y0 VVri b 
,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF080859 VN
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
PIY(irlb 
, 2012, entered into between:
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
/ 
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("World Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity
but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology
Fund ("CTF").
WHEREAS:
(A) 
the Borrower has requested the World Bank to provide assistance
towards the financing of the project described in Schedule I to the
Financing 
Agreement 
(as 
defined 
in 
the 
following
paragraph) ("Project");
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
World Bank ("3inancing Agreement"), the World Bank has agreed to
provide such assistance in an amount equivalent to two hundred ninety-
seven 
millior. 
seven 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing
Rights (SDR 297,700,000) ("Financing"); and
(C) 
by an agreemert of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
World Bank, ac:ing as administrator of the Australian Trust Fund for the
AusAID-World Bank Strategic Partnership in Vietnam ("Australian
Trust Fund for the AusAID-World Bank Strategic Partnership in
Vietnam Grant Agreement"), the World Bank intends to provide such
assistance in an amount of seven million six hundred thousand Australian
Dollars (AU$7,600,000) ("Australian Trust Fund for the AusAID-World
Bank Strategic Partnership in Vietnam Grant"); and
NOW the Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
-2-
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million
Dollars ($30,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of :he resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of
the Standard Conditions shall be equal to forty-five one-hundredths of one
percent (0.45%) of the Loan.
:2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to three-four:hs of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is trie Dollar.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Power Corporations' Respective Parts of the
Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entities in accordance with
the provisions of Articl. 
11 of the Standard Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
-3-
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
any of the Project Implementing Entities' Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of any of the relevant Project Implementing
Entity(ies) to perform any of its (their) obligations under the Project
Agreement; and
(b) 
the Borrower has failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Financing Agreement or the Australian Trust Fund for the AusAID-
World Bank Strategic Partnership in Vietnam Grant Agreement.
4.02. 
The deadline for the effectiveness of the Australian Trust Fund for the AusAID-
World Bank Strategic Partnership in Vietnam Grant Agreement is one (1) year
after the Effective Date.
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for
a period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the World
Bank to the Borrower.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Power Corporations; and
(b) 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Power Corporations and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Power Corporations 
in accordance with their
respective terms; and
-4-
(b) 
the Resettlement Policy Framework has been duly approved by the
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entities in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
,5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is the Governor :r a Deputy Governor of State Bank of Vietnam.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 L Thdi To
Hanoi
Vietnam
Facsimile:
84-4-3825-0612
,5.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / International
Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD /
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Hanoi, Vietnam, as of the day and year first above
written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
fr-tAt4L\ 
YVA\ 5iKL
Title: 6-6tuYo 
Mon
c4 V(-raho
INTERNATIONAL BANK FQ,
RECONSTRUCTION ANDVELOPMENT /
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as 
an 
implementing 
entity of the Clean
Technology Fund
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
iDy c 
~C
Title: 
C'o_n n4 
rebv
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
Ministry of Industry and Trade
The 
Borrower 
shall 
be 
responsible 
for 
overall 
Project 
coordination,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation through the Ministry of Industry
and Trade.
1B. 
Subsidiary Agreements
To facilitate the carrying out of the Power Corporations' Respective Parts of the
Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to
each of the Power Corporations under subsidiary agreements between the
Borrower and the Power Corporations, under terms and conditions approved by
the World Bank, which shall include the following ("Subsidiary Agreements"):
(a) 
the Power Corporations' respective portions of the principal amount of
the Loan made available under the Subsidiary Agreements shall be made
available on terms not less onerous than those on which the Loan is made
available to the Borrower and in accordance with the Borrower's on-
lending procedures and policies;
(b) 
the obligation of the Power Corporations to carry out their Respective
Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other
than the Borrower;
(c) 
the obligation of the Power Corporations to carry out their Respective
Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Operations Manual and the Safeguards Instruments, and without any
right or authority, except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree in
writing, to assign, Emend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision
thereof;
(d) 
the obligation of tbe Power Corporations to (i) maintain a financial
management systerr and prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the World Bank,
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations. and financial
-7-
condition of said Power Corporations, 
including the operations,
resources, and expenditures related to their Respective Parts of the
Project; and (ii) have such statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the World Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the World Bank, and furnish such
audited financial statements to the Borrower and the World Bank in
accordance with the provisions of Section II.C.3 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement and make them publicly available in a timely fashion
and in a manner acceptable to the World Bank; and
(e) 
the obligation of the Power Corporations to carry out procurement of the
goods, works, and services required for their Respective Parts of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule,
as said provisions tray be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreements or any of the pr3visions thereof.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
1). 
Project Operations Manual
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual; and
(b) 
except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign,
amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended,
abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations
Manual and those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
E. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Safeguards Instruments, and, except as the World Bank shall
otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or
-8-
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of the Safeguards
Instruments and those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
3. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under Section II.A. 1 (a) of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to regularly collect,
compile, and submit to 1he World Bank, as part of the Project Reports,
information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards Instruments,
providing details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of said Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of said Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare 
Project Reports 
in accordance 
with the provisions 
of
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph and the Project
Reports 
prepared 
by 
the 
Power 
Corporations 
pursuant ' to
Section II.A.1 (a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement for their
Respective Parts of the Project. Each overall Project Report shall cover
the period of one (1) calendar year, and shall be furnished to the World
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a)
consist of the following:
No. 
Indicator
Project Objectives
1. 
Reliability of electricity supply, as evidenced by the following
for each of the Power Corporations' in the Project area,
calculated in accordance with the methodology set forth in the
-9-
Vietnam Distribution Code:
(a) system average interruption duration index
(b) system average interruption frequency index
2. 
Quality of electricity supply, as evidenced by each of the
Power Corporations' voltage excursion outside + / -5% in
relation to 110 Kilovolt and medium voltage transformers in
the Project area
3. 
Total distribution losses, as evidenced by each of the Power
Corporations' losses in the Project area
4. 
Consumption reduction in relation to advanced metering
infrastructure system customers of each of Northern Power
Corporation, 
Central 
Power Corporation, Hanoi 
Power
Corporation, and Ho Chi Minh City Power Corporation
relative tc business as usual
5. 
Avoided greenhouse gas emissions in relation to each of
Northern Power Corporation, Central Power Corporation,
Hanoi Power Corporation, and Ho Chi Minh City Power
Corporation
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 cf the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Datc.
i. 
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the World Bank and the Project Implementing
Entities, not later than thirty-six (36) months, or such other period as may
be agreed with the World Bank, after the Effective Date, a midterm
review to assess the status of Project implementation, as measured
against the performance indicators set forth in Part A. 1 (b) of this Section
and Section II.A.1 (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. Such
review shall include an assessment of the following: (i) overall progress
in implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities;
(iii) progress on procurement and disbursement; 
(iv) progress on
implementation 
of 
safeguards 
measures; 
(v) implementation
arrangements; and (vi) the need to make any adjustments to the Project to
improve performance, including in relation to Sub-projects, particularly
- 10-
Phase 
2 
Sub-projects, 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
provisions 
of
Section I.E.2 (a) (ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement;
(b) 
cause the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the World Bank, at least one (1) month before such
review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the World Bank and
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to Part A. 1 (a) of this Section and Section II.A. 1 (a)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such
report and setting oit the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review jointly with the World Bank and the Project Implementing
Entities the report referred to in the preceding paragraph and thereafter
cause the Project Implementing Entities to take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
such report and the World Bank's views on the matter.
C. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Fir ancial Statements shall cover the period of one (1)
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the
end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I1. 
Goods, Works, and Non--consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services requirec for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
-11-
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of th. Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II
and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
13. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services
I1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works, and
non-consulting services. Tie Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set forth
in the Annex to this Schedule
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consu tants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
- 12-
2 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least-Cost Selection
(d) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single-Source Selection of consulting firms
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single-source procedur.s for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and
(c) such additional instructizns as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
- 13 -
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures
Loan Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in 
(inclusive of Taxes)
USD)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
29,865,000 
100
consulting services,
consultants' services, and
Training under Part B.2 of
the Project
(2) Management Fee 
135,000 
Amount payable in
accordance with Section 2.04
of this Agreement and
Section 4.01 (a) of the
Standard Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made p-ior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
C. 
Other Withdrawal Undertakings
The Borrower intends that, to the extent practicable, with respect to Part B.2 of the
Project, the proceeds of the Loan and the Financing will be withdrawn in the following
order, namely, first the proceeds of the Loan and subsequently those of the Financing.
- 14-
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Procedures
The procedures to be followed for the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding shall be those set forth in: (a) Article 18 on Open Bidding of the Borrower's Law
on Procurement No. 61/2005/'QHI 1 dated November 29, 2005; (b) the Borrower's Law
No. 38/2009/QHI2 Amending and Supplementing a Number of Articles of Laws
Concerning Capital Construction Investment dated June 19, 2009; and (c) the Borrower's
Decree No. 85/2009/ND-CP Guiding Implementation of the Law on the Procurement and
Selection 
of 
Construction 
Contractors 
under 
the 
Construction 
Law 
dated
October 15, 2009 (collectively, National Procurement Laws), subject to the provisions of
Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines and the following
additional procedures:
Conflict of Interest
I1. 
A bidder shall not have a conflict of interest. Any bidder found to have a conflict
of interest shall be ineligible for award of a contract. 
The provisions on conflict of
interest as stated under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply.
jligibility
2. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the World Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I
of the Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the
same conditions as national bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign
bidders shall be granted to national :idders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be
asked or required to form joint ventures with or be subcontractors to national bidders in
order to submit a bid.
3. 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions of the Borrower's country are
eligible to bid in the Borrower's country only if they can establish that they: (i) are
egally and financially autonomous. (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are not
dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-borrower. 
Military or security units or
enterprises established under, reporting directly or indirectly to, or owned wholly or
partly by, the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Public Security shall not be
permitted to bid.
Registration
4. 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A foreign bidder
shall not be required to register as a condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to
- 15 -
be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of
registering, without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
Advertising; Time for Bid Preparation
5. 
The complete text of advertisement shall be published in a national newspaper of
wide circulation or in the official gazette provided that it is of wide circulation, or on a
widely used website or electronic p:rtal with free national and international access. The
Borrower may publish a shorter version of the advertisement text, including the minimum
relevant information, in the national press provided that the full text is simultaneously
published in the official gazette or on a widely used website or electronic portal with free
national and international access. Notification shall be given to prospective bidders in
sufficient time to enable them to obtain relevant documents.
6. 
The time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less than
thirty (30) days from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of the
bidding documents, whichever is later.
Standard Bidding Documents
7. 
Standard bidding documents acceptable to the World Bank shall be used.
Qiualification Criteria
8. 
Qualification criteria shall Le clearly specified in the bidding documents, and all
criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used to determine whether a
bidder is qualified. Qualification shall be assessed on a pass or fail basis and merit points
shall not be used. Such assessment shall only take into account the bidder's capacity and
resources to perform the contract, specifically its experience and past performance on
similar contracts, capabilities with respect to personnel, equipment, and construction and
manufacturing facilities, and financial capacity. The evaluation of the bidder's
qualifications shall be conducted separately subsequent to the technical and commercial
evaluation of the bid.
Bid Submission, Bid Opening, and Bid Evaluation
9. 
Bidders may submit bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or
by mail, as required in the bidd ng documents. 
Bids shall be opened in public,
immediately after the deadline for submission of bids, regardless of the number of bids
received. 
Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and
returned to the bidders unopened. A copy of the bid opening minutes shall be promptly
provided to all bidders who submitted bids, and to the World Bank with respect to
contracts subject to the World Bank's prior review.
-16-
(a) 
Bidding documents shall be sold to anyone who is willing to pay the
required fee for the bidding documents which shall not exceed the costs
of printing, reproduction, and delivery at any time prior to the deadline
for bid submission, and no other conditions shall be imposed on the sale
of the bidding docunents.
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that
shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in
monetary terms for evaluation criteria other than price; merit points shall
not be used in bid evaluation.
(c) 
A contract shall be awarded, within the period of the validity of bids, to
the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and
resources and whose bid has been determined (i) to be substantially
responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the lowest
evaluated cost. 
No negotiations shall be permitted. 
A bidder shall
neither be required nor permitted, as a condition for award, to undertake
obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to
modify the bid as originally submitted.
(d) 
No bid shall be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of
minor, non-substantive deviations.
(e) 
The comparison of all bids and the award of contract may be based on
the total cost at destination including all taxes and duties.
(f) 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's
estimate and budget ceiling without the World Bank's prior written
agreement.
Rejection of All Bids and Re-biddiing
10. 
Rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective competition, or all
bids are not substantially responsive, or no bidder meets the specified qualification
criteria, or the bid price of the lowest evaluated winning bid is substantially higher than
the Borrower's updated estimated cost or available budget. Lack of competition shall not
be determined solely on the basis of the number of bidders. Even when only one (1) bid
is submitted, the bidding process may be considered valid if the bid was satisfactorily
advertised, the qualification criteria were not unduly restrictive, and prices are reasonable
in comparison to market values. All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited
without the World Bank's prior written agreement.
- 17-
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
I 1. 
The Borrower shall implement an effective 
and independent protest
mechanism allowing bidders to protest and have their protests handled in a timely
manner. An independent protest mechanism shall provide for the review of complaints
by an independent entity that is not involved in any aspect of the underlying procurement
process (e.g., bid evaluation, contract approval, etc.).
Fraud and Corruption
12. 
The provisions on fraud and corruption as stated under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply. Each bidding document and contract financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and
corruption as defined in the Procurement Guidelines. The World Bank may sanction a
Firm or individual, at any time, in accordance with prevailing World Bank sanctions
procedures, including by publicly declaring such firm or individual ineligible, either
indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a World Bank-financed
zontract; and (ii) to be a nominated subcontractor, consultant, supplier, or service
provider of an otherwise eligible firm being awarded a World Bank-financed contract.
Right to Inspect / Audit
13. 
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan
shall include a provision requiring bidders, suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors to
permit the World Bank to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid
submission and performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records
audited by auditors appointed by the World Bank. 
Acts intended to materially impede
the exercise of the World Bank's inspection and audit rights provided for in the
Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Procurement
Guidelines.
License
4. 
Foreign contractors shall be given a reasonable opportunity to apply for and
obtain a work license, which shall not be arbitrarily withheld.
Publication of the Award of Contract
15. 
Within two (2) weeks of receiving the World Bank's non-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the World Bank's prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower's award decision for contracts subject to the World
Bank's post review, the Borrower shall publish the following information on contract
award in a national newspaper of wide circulation and / or in the official gazette provided
that it is of wide circulation, or on a widely used website or electronic portal with free
national and international access: (a) the name of each bidder which submitted a bid;
- 18-
(b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) evaluated prices of each bid that was
evaluated; (d) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons thereof; and (e) the
name of the winning bidder, the final total contract price, as well as the duration and
summary scope of the contract.
Contract Modifications
16. 
With respect to contracts subject to the World Bank's prior review, the Borrower
shall obtain the World Bank's non-objection before agreeing to: (a) a material extension
of the stipulated time for performance of a contract; (b) any substantial modification of
lie scope of services or other significant changes to the terms and conditions of the
contract; (c) any variation order or amendment (except in cases of extreme urgency)
which, singly or combined with al [ variation orders or amendments previously issued,
increases the original contract amcunt by more than fifteen percent (15%); or (d) the
proposed termination of the contract. 
A copy of all contract amendments shall be
provided to the World Bank.
- 19-
SCHEDULE 2
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the
Loan repayable
Date Payment Due 
(expressed as a percentage)
On each March I and September 1, commencing 
5
March 1, 2023 to and including September 1, 2032
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Additional Environmental Management Plans" means, collectively, the Power
Corporations (as hereinafter defined)' plans, to be prepared pursuant to the
Environmental Management Framework (as hereinafter defined) and agreed with
the World Bank, setting forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to eliminate
any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under Phase 2
Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined), offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes
any annexes or schedules to such plans.
^. 
"Additional Ethnic Minority Development Plans" means, collectively, the Power
Corporations' plans, to be prepared pursuant to the Ethnic Minority Planning
Framework (as hereinafter defined) and agreed with the World Bank, setting
forth the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures,
including capacity building through training, to address any adverse effects on
Ethnic Minorities (as hereinafter defined) associated with, and ensure culturally
appropriate social and economic benefits for Ethnic Minorities under, Phase 2
Sub-projects, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such plans.
3. 
"Additional Resettlement Plans" means, collectively, the Power Corporations'
plans, to be prepared pursuant to the Resettlement Policy Framework (as
hereinafter defined) and agreed with the World Bank, setting forth the mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building
through training, to carry cut acquisition of land and other assets, compensation,
resettlement, and rehabilitation, including livelihood restoration, of Project
Affected Persons (as hereinafter defined) under Phase 2 Sub-projects, as the same
may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the World
Bank, and such term incluces any annexes or schedules to such plans.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Con-uption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
-21 -
6. 
"Electricity Regulatory Authority of Vietnam" means the Borrower's entity,
established and operating pursuant to its Decision No. 258/2005/QD-TTg, dated
October 19, 2005, responsible for the regulation of its electricity sector, or a
successor thereto.
7. 
"Environmental Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework,
dated June 2012, agreed with the World Bank, and approved pursuant to the
Borrower's Decision No. 4084/QD-BCT dated July 17, 2012, setting forth
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, to eliminate any adverse environmental
impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project, offset them, or reduce
them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, and guidelines and
procedures for the preparation of Environmental Management Plans (as
hereinafter defined) and Additional Environmental Management Plans, as the
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
World Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
framework.
S. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plans" 
means, 
collectively, 
the 
Power
Corporations' 
plans, prepared pursuant to. the Environmental Management
Framework, and agreed with the World Bank, setting forth mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building
through training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to
be implemented under Phase I Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined), offset them,
or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same
may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the World
Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plans.
9. 
"Ethnic Minorities" means social groups disadvantaged in the development
process and with a social and cultural identity distinct from those which
constitute the predominant ethnic group in the Borrower's territory.
10. 
"Ethnic Minority Planning Framework" means the Borrower's framework, dated
June 2012, agreed with the World Bank, and approved pursuant to the
Borrower's Decision No. 4084/QD-BCT dated July 17, 2012, and setting forth
the mitigation, enhanceme:it, monitoring, and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, to ensure meaningful consultation with, and
the informed participation 3f, Ethnic Minorities within the Project area who are
affected by Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined), and guidelines and procedures
for the preparation of Ethnic Minority Development Plans (as hereinafter
defined) and Additional Ethnic Minority Development Plans, as the same may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank,
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework.
- 22 -
11. 
"Ethnic 
Minority 
Development 
Plans" 
means, collectively, 
the 
Power
Corporations' plans, prepared pursuant to the Environmental Minority Planning
Framework, and agreed with the World Bank, setting forth the mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building
through training, to address any adverse effects on Ethnic Minorities associated
with, and ensure culturally appropriate social and economic benefits for Ethnic
Minorities under, Phase I Sub-projects, as the same may be modified from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank, and such term
includes any annexes or sch'edules to such plans.
2. 
"Hanoi" means the city of such name in the northern part of the Borrower's
territory or a successor thereto.
13. 
"Hanoi Power Corporation" means Vietnam Electricity (as hereinafter defined)'s
wholly-owned subsidiary, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Decision No. 738/QD-BCT 
dated February 5, 2010, and Hanoi Power
Corporation's charter, as adopted pursuant to the Borrower's Decision
No. 348/2010/QD-EVN dated June 2, 2010, responsible for the development,
operation, and maintenance of facilities for the distribution of electricity in
Hanoi, or a successor thereto.
14. 
"Ho Chi Minh City" means the city of such name in the southern part of the
Borrower's territory or a successor thereto.
15. 
"Ho Chi Minh City Power Corporation" means Vietnam Electricity's wholly-
owned subsidiary, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decision
No. 768/2010/QD-BCT dated February 5, 2010, and Hanoi Power Corporation's
charter, as adopted pursuant to the Borrower's Decision No. 349/2010/QD-EVN
dated June 2, 2010, responsible for the development, operation, and maintenance
of facilities for the distribution of electricity in Ho Chi Minh City, or a successor
thereto.
16. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the following caused on account of Project
implementation: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks
and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected
person.
17. 
"Kilovolt" means one thousand (1,000) volts, a standard unit of measure of
electric voltage.
18. 
"Ministry of Defense" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for defense or
a successor thereto.
- 23 -
19. 
"Ministry of Industry and Trade" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
the management of industry and trade or a successor thereto.
20. 
"Ministry of Public Security" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
public security or a successor thereto.
21. 
"Northern Power Corporation" means Vietnam Electricity's wholly-owned
subsidiary, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decision
No. 789/QD-BCT, dated February 5, 2010, and Northern Power Corporation's
charter, as adopted pursuant to the Borrower's Decision No. 345/2010/QD-EVN
dated June 2, 2010, responsible for the development, operation, and maintenance
of facilities for the distribution of electricity in the northern part of the
Borrower's territory, excep: for Hanoi, or a successor thereto.
22. 
"Phase 1 Sub-projects" means Sub-projects that have been identified and
prepared by the Power Coiporations, approved by the relevant authorities of the
Borrower, and appraised by the World Bank by the date of this Agreement.
23. 
"Phase 2 Sub-projects" means Sub-projects other than Phase I Sub-projects.
24. 
"Power Corporations" means, collectively, the following: (a) Northern Power
Corporation; (b) Hanoi Power Corporation; and (c) Ho Chi Minh City Power
Corporation; and "Power Corporation" means any one (1) of said entities.
25. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
26. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated August 10, 2012 alid referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
27. 
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of implementation of
Sub-projects, have experienced or would experience direct economic or social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas., resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons.
28. 
"Project Implementing Entities" means, collectively, the following: (a) Vietnam
Electricity; (b) Northern Power Corporation; (c) Hanoi Power Corporation; and
- 24 -
(d) Ho Chi Minh City Power Corporation; and "Project Implementing Entity"
means any one (1) of said entities.
29. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means: (a) for Vietnam Electricity,
the Borrower's Decision No. 975/2010/QD-TTg 
dated June 25, 2010, and
Vietnam Electricity's charter, as adopted pursuant to the Borrower's Decision
No. 857/201 1/QD-TTg dated June 6, 2011; (b) for Northern Power Corporation,
the Borrower's Decision No. 789/QD-BCT dated February 5, 2010, and Northern
Power Corporation's charter, as adopted pursuant to the Borrower's Decision
No. 345/2010/QD-EVN dated June 2, 2010; (c) for Hanoi Power Corporation, the
Borrower's Decision No. 738/QD-BCT dated February 5, 2010, and Hanoi
Power Corporation's charter, as adopted pursuant to the Borrower's Decision
No. 348/2010/QD-EVN daled June 2, 2010; and (d) for Ho Chi Minh City Power
Corporation, 
the 
Borrower's 
Decision 
No. 
768/2010/QD-BCT 
dated
February 5, 2010, and Ho Chi Minh City Power Corporation's charter, as
adopted pursuant to the Borrower's Decision No. 349/2010/QD-EVN dated
June 2, 2010; and such term includes any other decisions or any laws and
regulations governing the organization, reorganization, restructuring, and
operations of the Project Implementing Entities as of the date of this Agreement.
30. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual, dated June 2012,
agreed with the World Bank, and approved pursuant to the Borrower's Decision
No. 
4294/QD-BCT 
dated July 
26, 
2012, 
setting out 
implementation,
organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation, financial management,
disbursement, 
and 
procurement 
arrangements 
for 
purposes 
of Project
implementation, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such manual.
31. 
"Resettlement Plans" means, collectively, the Power Corporations' 
plans,
prepared pursuant to the Resettlement Policy Framework, and agreed with the
World Bank, setting forth the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to carry out
acquisition 
of land and other assets, 
compensation, resettlement, 
and
rehabilitation, including livelihood restoration, of Project Affected Persons under
Phase 1 Sub-projects, as the same may be modified from time to time with the
prior written agreement oF the World Bank, and such term includes any annexes
or schedules to such plans.
32. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's framework, dated
June 2012, agreed with the World Bank, and approved pursuant to the
Borrower's Decision No. 1124/TTg-QHQT dated August 3, 2012, setting forth
the mitigation, enhancerr ent, monitoring, and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, to carry out acquisition of land and other
assets, compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation, including livelihood
-25-
restoration, of Project Affe.ted Persons, and guidelines and procedures for the
preparation of Resettlement Plans and Additional Resettlement Plans, as the
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
World Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
framework.
33. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means, individually, the following: (a) for
Northern Power Corporation, Part B.2 of the Project in its coverage area; (c) for
Hanoi Power Corporation, Part B.2 of the Project in its coverage area; and (d) for
Ho Chi Minh City Power Corporation, Part B.2 of the Project in its coverage
area; and "Respective Parts of the Project" means, collectively, more than one (1)
of said parts.
34. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental Management
Framework, 
the 
Environmental 
Management 
Plans, 
any 
Additional
Environmental Management Plans, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the
Resettlement Plans, any Additional Resettlement Plans, the Ethnic Minority
Planning Framework, the Ethnic Minority Development Plans, and any
Additional Ethnic Minority Development Plans.
35. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 15, 2012, with
the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
36. 
"State Bank of Vietnam" means the Borrower's central bank or a successor
thereto.
37. 
"Sub-project" means a specific activity under Part B of the Project; and "Sub-
projects" means more than one (1) such activity.
38. 
"Subsidiary Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements referred to in
Section I.B of Schedule I to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Power Corporations;
and "Subsidiary Agreement" means any one (1) of such agreements.
39. 
"Training" means the cost of training financed under the Project, on the basis of
the annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.D of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, attributable to seminars, study tours, and workshops,
along with the cost of domestic and international travel and subsistence for
training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation
and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
training preparation and implementation.
40. 
"Vietnam Distribution Code" means the Borrower's code, adopted pursuant to its
Circular No. 32/2010/TT-BCT dated July 30, 2010, setting forth performance
- 26 -
standards, planning conditions, investment procedures, demand forecasts,
network connection technical requirements and procedures, and dispatch,
operation, and metering prozcedures, all in relation to the distribution system, and
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such code.
41. 
"Vietnam 
Electricity" 
means 
the 
Borrower's 
wholly-owned 
enterprise,
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Borrower's 
Decision
No. 975/2010/QD-TTg dated June 25, 2010, and Vietnam Electricity's charter, as
adopted pursuant to the Borrower's Decision No. 857/201 1/QD-TTg dated
June 6, 2011, responsible for the development, operation, and maintenance,
direct or indirect, of facilities for the generation, transmission, and distribution of
electricity throughout the Brrower's territory, or a successor thereto.
Section II. Modifications to the Standard Conditions
The modification to the Standard Conditions is as follows:
Section 3.06 (a) is modified to read as follows:
"(a) 
the payment is for the reasonable cost of goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants' services, or training required for the Project, to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and procured, all in accordance with the provisions of the Legal
Agreements;"
