I
OPPCIAL
LOAN NUMBER 7967-LE
Loan Agreement
(Greater Beirut Water Supply Project)
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated CebPk 
o 12-
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
i
LOAN NUMBER 7967-LE
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
G 
V0 
A 
,20, 
between LEBANESE
REPUBLIC ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars
(USD 200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through the MOEW, shall cause Respective Parts of the
Project to be carried out by CDR, and parts of the Project to be carried out by the
PMU, as further described in Sections I.A.3 and I.A.4 of this Agreement, each in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the CDR
Project Agreement and the BMLWE Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The CDR Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CDR to
perform any of its obligations under the CDR Project Agreement.
(b) 
The BMLWE Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the BMLWE to perform any of its obligations under the BMLWE
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
Each of the CDR Subsidiary Agreement and the BMLWE Subsidiary
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the CDR
and BMLWE respectively.
(b) 
The core team of the Project Management Unit, staffed with a project
coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist,
an environmental and social specialist, and an engineer, each with
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, is
operating.
(c) 
An interim progress report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, on the findings on the internal control environment for fiscal year
2010, to be performed as part of a special purpose audit for BMLWE by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that each of the
CDR Subsidiary Agreement and the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the CDR and BMLWE
respectively and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the CDR and BMLWE
respectively in accordance with its respective terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Riad El-Solh Square
Beirut
Lebanese Republic
Facsimile:
+961 1 642 762
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
[NTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Beirut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above
written.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Autho zed Representative
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the provision of potable water to the
residents in the Project area within the greater Beirut region, including those in the low-
income neighborhoods of southern Beirut, and to strengthen the capacity of the BMLWE
in utility operations.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Bulk Water Supply Infrastructure
(a) 
Construction 
and construction supervision of bulk water supply
infrastructure consisting of:
(i) 
water tunnel conveyors, including related intake, flow regulation
and washout structures, and related vent and surge shafts and a
distribution chamber;
(ii) 
twin transmission pipelines; and
(iii) 
water storage reservoirs.
(b) 
Design, construction, construction supervision and operation of a water
treatment plant.
(c) 
Financing of equipment associated with the bulk water supply
infrastructure including pumps and valves.
(d) 
Support to CDR for Project management related to the bulk water supply
infrastructure through the financing of consultants' services.
Part 2. 
Supply Reservoirs, Distribution Network and Metering
(a) 
Design, construction and construction supervision of supply reservoirs
and associated pumping stations.
(b) 
Design, construction and construction supervision of water supply
distribution networks of pipelines across southern Beirut and parts of the
Metn, Baabda and Aley areas.
(c) 
Installation of household water meters in selected areas.
-7-
(d) 
Installation of bulk water meters at the reservoirs and distribution
chambers.
Part 3. Project Management, Utility Strengthening and National Studies
(a) 
Establishment and operation of the PMU, including the financing of
Incremental Operating Costs.
(b) 
Capacity building and technical assistance to strengthen BMLWE's
capacity, and MOEW's capacity for Project oversight, and financing of
consultants' services for the BMLWE special purpose audits.
(c) 
Provision of equipment to strengthen BMLWE, such as telemetry or
supervision 
control 
and 
data 
acquisition 
systems, 
geographical
information system, customer information system and an international
accounting system.
(d) 
Carrying out of high priority national studies on key sector areas, such as
wastewater management, utility operations and regulation of the water,
sanitation and irrigation sectors, water resource management, water
supply augmentation and inter-basin transfers, to be selected with the
agreement of the Bank, in alignment with the priorities set forth in the
National Water Sector Strategy currently under preparation by the
Borrower.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the MOEW to maintain overall responsibility for the
Project and Project oversight and to carry out the Project. To this end, MOEW
will delegate the implementation of the Respective Parts of the Project described
in Section I.A.3 below to CDR, and will manage the implementation of the
Respective Parts of the Project described in Section I.A.4 below through the
BMLWE's PMU. MOEW shall ensure that the Steering Committee is maintained
throughout the life of the Project, to be responsible for overall policy direction
and guidance and general Project supervision. The Steering Committee shall be
housed within the MOEW, chaired by the Borrower's Minister of Energy and
Water, and composed of key stakeholders, including representatives from the
MOF, CDR and BMLWE.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Steering Committee to maintain a secretariat,
consisting of the PMU's operations advisor, monitoring and evaluation specialist
and administrative assistant, each with terms of reference and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank. The Steering Committee's secretariat will be housed at
MOEW and will be responsible for monitoring general Project progress and will
report to the Minister of Energy and Water.
3. 
The Borrower, through MOEW, shall cause CDR to be responsible for (a)
implementation of Parts 1 (a) and 1 (c) of the Project; (b) procurement of
contracts under Parts 1 (a) and 1 (c) of the Project; and (c) financial management
under Parts 1 (a) and 1 (c) of the Project, as further described and specified in the
PIM.
4. 
The Borrower, through MOEW, shall maintain, throughout the life of the Project,
the PMU, in a form and with functions, staffing, resources, terms of reference
and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, and shall cause the PMU to be
responsible for (a) implementation of Parts 1(b), 2 and 3 of the Project; (b)
procurement of contracts under Parts 1 (b), 2 and 3 of the Project; (c) financial
management under Parts 1 (b), 2 and 3 of the Project; (d) monitoring and
reporting on the Project, and overall project coordination, under the supervision
of MOEW; and (e) implementation and supervision of the Resettlement Action
Plan and the ESMP, as further described and specified in the PIM. The PMU will
be maintained within BMLWE, with respective specialists of the PMU housed at
MOEW and BMLWE, as appropriate and as further specified in the PIM.
-9-
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, by June 30, 2011, the PMU is staffed with
technical experts, including an electro-mechanical engineer, two civil/water
engineers, a structural engineer and a process/water quality engineer, each with
terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, by June 30, 2011, the PMU is provided with an
operational accounting system (including software) for the Project, satisfactory to
the Bank.
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
PIM, the CDR Project Agreement, the BMLWE Project Agreement, the CDR
Subsidiary Agreement, the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement and the Procurement
Plan and shall cause each of MOEW, CDR, BMLWE and the PMU to ensure that
it does not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the PIM,
the CDR Project Agreement, the BMLWE Project Agreement, the CDR
Subsidiary Agreement, the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement or the Procurement
Plan, without prior approval of the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreements
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of CDR's Respective Parts of the Project (as set
forth in Section I.A.3 of this Agreement and further described and specified in
the PIM), the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to
CDR as a grant under the CDR Subsidiary Agreement, under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank.
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the BMLWE's Respective Parts of the Project
(as set forth in Section I.A.4 of this Agreement and further described and
specified in the PIM), the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan
available 
to 
the 
BMLWE's 
PMU 
as 
a 
grant under 
the BMLWE
Subsidiary Agreement under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CDR Subsidiary Agreement and
the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the CDR Subsidiary Agreement, or the BMLWE Subsidiary
Agreement or any of their respective provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
- 10 -
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
ESMP and the Resettlement Action Plan and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive any provision of the ESMP and the Resettlement Action Plan
without prior approval of the Bank. The Borrower shall ensure that each of the
MOEW, CDR, the PMU and BMLWE does not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal
or waive any provision of the ESMP and the Resettlement Action Plan without
prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the PMU to ensure that supervision of implementation
and compliance with the ESMP and the Resettlement Action Plan is carried out
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause BMLWE to have a special purpose audit conducted on
its statement of cash receipts and disbursements for fiscal year 2010, and
statement of changes of funds balance as of December 31, 2010. Such special
- 11 -
purpose audit shall be performed by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standard acceptable to the
Bank, and shall cause BMLWE to furnish to the Bank said special purpose audit
no later than September 30, 2011.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause BMLWE to have its financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, starting with fiscal year 2012, and throughout the life of the
Project. Such financial statements shall be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standard
acceptable to the Bank, and shall cause BMLWE to furnish to the Bank said
audits no later than September 30 of each year following the preceding fiscal
year.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works. 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances 
under which 
such methods may 
be used.
- 12 -
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the Bank's procurement procedures
and using the Bank's standard bidding documents, acceptable and cleared by
the Bank
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Least-Cost Selection
(d) Single-Source Selection
(e) Selection of individual consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
- 13 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and 
185,000,000 
100%
consultants' services for
Parts 1(a) and (c) of the
Project
(2) Goods, works and 
2,550,000 
5%
consultants' services for
Part 1(b) of the Project
(3) Goods, works and 
1,050,000 
2.5%
consultants' services for
Parts 2(a) and (b) of the
Project
(4) Goods, works and 
1,000,000 
5%
consultants' services for
Parts 2 (c) and (d) of the
Project
(5) Goods, and 
9,900,000 
66%
consultants' services for
Part 3 of the Project,
Training, audit, and
- 14 -
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Incremental Operating
Costs
(6) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 
2.03 
of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(7) Premia for Interest 
Amount payable pursuant
Rate Caps and Interest 
0 
to Section 2.07(c) of this
Rate Collars 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after October 1,
2010, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016.
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2017
through January 15, 2033 
2.94%
On July 15, 2033 
2.98%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 16 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
2. 
"BMLWE" means the Borrower's Beirut Mount Lebanon Water Establishment,
the Project Implementing Entity charged with implementation of parts of the
Project through the PMU as described in Section I.A.4 of this Agreement, a
public authority established and operating pursuant to the Law No.221 (2000)
dated May 29, 2000, and Law No.377 (2001) dated December 14, 2001, or any
successor thereto.
3. 
"BMLWE Legislation" means Law No. 221 (2000) dated May 29, 2000 and Law
No.377 (2001) dated December 14, 2001.
4. 
"BMLWE Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement between BMLWE
and the Bank.
5. 
"BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make
part of the proceeds of the Loan available to BMLWE.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"CDR" means the Borrower's Council for Development and Reconstruction, the
Project Implementing Entity charged with implementation of parts of the Project
as described in Section I.A.3 of this Agreement, a public authority established
and operating pursuant to the Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977
and Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001, or any successor thereto.
8. 
"CDR Legislation" means Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and
Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001.
9. 
"CDR Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement between CDR and the
Bank.
10. 
"CDR Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part
of the proceeds of the Loan available to CDR.
- 18 -
11. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
12. 
"Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means the
Borrower's environmental and social impact assessment, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, dated August 6, 2010, including, inter alia: (i) the
identification and assessment of potential environmental and social impacts of
activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of alternative
measures; and (iii) the ESMP (as hereinafter defined) detailing the appropriate
mitigation, monitoring, institutional and management measures required for the
implementation of the Project with a view to ensuring compliance of the
activities referred to in sub-paragraph (i) herein with said measures and to
eliminating adverse environmental and social impacts, offsetting such impacts, or
reducing them to acceptable levels.
13. 
"ESMP" means the Borrower's environmental and social management plan for
the Project dated August 6, 2010, incorporated in the ESIA, as such plan may be
updated from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken
during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce
adverse environmental and social impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
15. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the PMU's reasonable and necessary
incremental expenditures related to the management and implementation of the
Project including on account of office rental, communication costs, maintenance,
insurance and fuel of vehicles and equipment; maintenance and spare parts of
equipment; 
miscellaneous 
utilities; 
stationary and 
office 
supplies, and
advertisement costs, translation and interpretation services, office stationary and
consumables expenses based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank, but
excluding salaries or honoraria of officials and employees of the Borrower's civil
services.
16. 
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any successor thereof.
17. 
"MOEW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Water or any successor
thereof.
18. 
"PIM" means the operations manual for the Project, dated September 30, 2010,
and referred to in Section I.A.7 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, describing and
setting forth procedures for implementation of the Project and institutional
arrangements, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with
-19-
applicable laws and regulations and including, among other things, timetables of
actions required to be carried out under the Project, the respective roles and
responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation of the Project, the
fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and procedures for implementation of
the Project, including the financial management procedures (budgeting,
accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of funds, financial
reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements procedures
and including the Project specific chart of accounts), procurement procedures,
monitoring and evaluation arrangements, details for the implementation of the
Resettlement Action Plan and the ESMP and other fiduciary and administrative
arrangements and necessary terms of reference, as the same may be amended
from time to time by agreement with the Bank.
19. 
"PMU" means the project management unit established pursuant to the MOEW's
administrative decision dated September 29, 2010, charged with implementation
of Respective Parts of the Project as described in Section I.A.4 of this
Agreement, and operating within BMLWE with respective specialists being
housed at MOEW and BMLWE, as appropriate and as further specified in the
PIM.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006 and May 2010.
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated September 29, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
22. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the Borrower's Resettlement Action Plan
dated August 6, 2010,, approved by the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the
compensation entitlement, resettlement assistance, institutional arrangements,
implementation program, grievance mechanism, monitoring mechanism and cost
estimates for the resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the
implementation of the Project, disclosed locally and through the Bank's
InfoShop.
23. 
"Steering Committee" means the steering committee to be established and
maintained by the MOEW and referred to in Section I. A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, housed within the MOEW, chaired by the Borrower's Minister for
Energy and Water, and composed of key stakeholders including representatives
from the MoF, CDR and BMLWE.
24. 
"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, not included under service providers'
-20-
contracts, including costs of training materials,, space and equipment rental,
travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees,
and other training related miscellaneous costs.
Section II. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:
1 .
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
as follows:
"... (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:
"... (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank's sanctions policies and
procedures (fnl3) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower,
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
Footnotes:
"13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the
Bank's sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary
-21-
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
financing made by such financier."
"14. 
Member Country includes officials and employees of the national
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines."
"15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be
posted on the Bank's website and otherwise be made known to staff and other
stakeholders."
