OFfICtAL
DOCUI
LOAN NUMBER 8192-ID
Loan Agreement
(Indonesia Infras ructure Guarantee Fund Project)
between
REPU ILIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIOSAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AN') DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
V 0 Ve m 
2 012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8192-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Ao ve" be -
, 2012, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty nine million six hundred
thousand United States Dollars (US$ 29,600,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of t he Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions c f Schedule 3 to t his Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower r iay it any time request any of the following Conversions
of tie terms of the L,oan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) i change of the '.oan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Lo in, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a chai ige of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion o 7 th< 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outrtanding fro n a /ariable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any port:on c f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding firn a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to z Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Srread or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawi and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread, and (iii) the
settng of limits on 1ae Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
out.tanding by the e;tablishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the V triat le Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversioL req iested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by :he I;ank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in tae General Con itions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of A rtich IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTI LE III- 
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Bo:Tower shall cau, e the Project to be carried out by IIGF in accordance
with the provisions of Art [cle V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upoa tht provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrowei and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agre -mei t.
ARTICLE IV - - REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of St spension consists of the following: any of the IIGF
Regulations have been amei.ded, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
-3-
to affect materially and adversely the ability of IIGF to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered on behalf of each of
the Borrower and IIGF.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consists of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with
its terms.
(b) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement have each
been duly authorized by IIGF, and is each legally binding upon IIGF in
accordance with its respective terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY45799 
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
Inturnational B ink f or Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W
Washington, ) C. 2)433
United States of An erica
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
-202-477-6391
Washington, D C.
AGREED at Jakar:a, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above
written.
RE UBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Robert Pakpahan
Title: Expert Staff of Minister
of Finance on State Revenue
With Full Mandate as
DG of Debt Management
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RE CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative,
Name:
Title: 
U 
cA a 
CounWRY Oire cTO
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Indonesia Infrastructure
Guarantee Fund as a single window institution to appraise infrastructure public private
partnership projects requiring government guarantees.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. WB-Supported IIGF Guarantees
Supporting IIGF in issuing WB-Supported IIGF Guarantees for qualifying WB-
Supported IIGF-projects.
Part 2. Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to develop IIGF's institutional capacity to: (a)
screen, appraise and supervise IIGF-projects as a single window for all
guarantees for infrastructure PPPs in Indonesia; (b) manage its operations; (c)
build capacity in Contracting Agencies, Sponsors and other relevant parties; (d)
develop standardized documents and procedures for Contracting Agencies,
Sponsors and other relevant parties to use in preparing HGF-projects and require
the use of such documents and procedures in order for PPPs to receive HGF
Guarantees; and (e) support PPP preparation activities, including feasibility
studies. transaction advisory support, and other activities.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
I roject Execution
Section I. 
Implementation At rangements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreemei it
'I. 
To facilitate the carrying ou of the Project by IIGF, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan avai able to IIGF under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and IIGF, on terms and conditions agreed among the
Borrower, IlGF and the Ban c, which shall include:
(a) 
denomination in Ru .iah; and
(b) 
the obligations of II 3F to: (i) make payment to the Borrower of a front-
end fee in an aaount equal to the Front-end Fee specified in Section 2.03
of this Agreemnnt; ii) make repayment to the Borrower of the proceeds
of te Loan ovcr a priod consistent with Section 2.06 of this Agreement;
and (iii) make payr ient to the Borrower of interest on the Withdrawn
Loo n Balance at the Bank Indonesia Policy Rate for Rupiah plus 1%; and
(iv) ensure tha. the Project is carried out in accordance with all of the
pro visions of tLe Lc an Agreement and the Project Agreement applicable
to IlGF.
2. 
The Borrower shall p-rfor rn its obligations and exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and as a shareholder of IIGF in such manner as to
protect the interests of tb a Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes o: the Project. E> cept as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, at rogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any of its provisions.
B. 
Institutional and Impleme itation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall caase ] IGF to remain at all times the Project Implementing
Entity.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause IIGF to implement the Project in accordance with
IIGF's obligations und.r th: Project Agreement, including, but not limited to the
following:
(a) 
to adopt, and thereafter implement in all of its operations (including, but
not limited to WB -Supported IIGF-projects), the Operations Manual,
which consists of, among other things, the Environmental and Social
Management 
Frainaework, 
Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework 
and
-7-
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, in each case in a manner
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; and
(b) 
to issue each WB-Supported IIGF Guarantee only after receipt of a
written no-objection by the Bank with respect thereto and only in
accordance with Annex 1 to the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
(c) 
IIGF may from time to time amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive
provisions of the Operations Manual with the prior written agreement
between IIGF and the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no proceeds of the Loan shall be used to finance
any IIGF Guarantee except WB-Supported IIGF Guarantees for which the Bank
has provided its prior written no-objection in accordance with Annex I to the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the
provisions of any one or more of the Project Agreement, the Operations Manual
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the corporate governance
chapter of the Operations Manual.
D. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
The Borrower shall cause IIGF to: (1) implement the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, Resettlement Policy Framework and Indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework referred to in the Operations Manual with respect
to all of its operations (including, but not limited to, any WB-Supported IIGF-
project and any Technical Assistance Activity); and (2) provide to the Bank, on a
timely basis as part of each Project Report, a report on the status and
performance 
of the implementation 
of the Environmental 
and 
Social
Management Framework, Resettlement Policy Framework and Indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
-8-
Conditions and on the basis f the indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the -eric d of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than orty -five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Managemen t, Fiitancial Reports and Audits
The Borroh er shall tr.a Intai: or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance witl. the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on tLe pr )visions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause IIGF :o prepare and firnish to the Bank as a part of the Project Report not
later than forty-five (45) dL ys after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
unaudited financial rer orts for the Project covering the quarter, in form and
substance sEtisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have 0: cause to have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial ' tatements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not lat -r than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services reqv ired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procur ed in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of th :Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section
2. 
Consultanti' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the rroce As of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirenents set forth c r referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the pro'isions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions 
The capitali; ed terms used below in this Section to describe
particular p-ocurement metl ods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the cor esponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant G iidelines, as the case may be.
-9-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement under Part 1 of the Project.
1. 
The Borrower shall cause IIGF to ensure that with respect to each WB-Supported
IIGF-project under Part 1 of the Project, procurement shall be carried out in
accordance with: (a) paragraph 1.5 of Section I and Section 3.18 of the
Procurement Guidelines; and (b) paragraph 1.8 of Section I and Section 3.14 of
the Consultant Guidelines.
2. 
For each IIGF-Project (including but not limited to each WB-Supported IIGF-
Project), IIGF shall assess the capacity and review of the procedures of the
Contracting Agency to ensure that its procurement is carried out in accordance
with the principles of economy and efficiency with due attention to the cost,
quality and timeliness of the procurement process.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
for Part 2 of the Project.
Goods and non-consulting services for Part 2 of the Project shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping.
D. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services for Part 2 of
the Project.
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services for Part 2 of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for the
procurement of consultants' 
services for those methods specified in the
Procurement Plan: 
(a) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; and
(b) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions for Part 2 of the Project
The Procurement Plan for Part 2 of the Project shall set forth those contracts
which shall be subject to the Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be
subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-10-
Section IV. 
Wihdrawal ol Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdrax the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II o ' the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as t ae Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bad : Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from ime to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the :able in parz grar h 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifie; the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed ot.t of the prcee Is of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to eaci Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible E pencitures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) WB-Supported IIGF Guaranteis 
25,000,000 
100%
under Part 1 of the Project
(2) 
Consultants' 
services, 
no n- 
4,600,000 
100%
consulting services and goods und.,r
Part 2 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
29,600,000
B. 
WithdrawLI Conditions; V 'ithdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisi ns of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Accc unt until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments 'nadc prior to the date of this Agreement except that
wit-idrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$2,300,000
equivalent may be nade for payments made prior to this date but on or
after July 19, :012, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2) in the
tab.e in Sectior IV., A of this Schedule.
- 11 -
2. 
Special Provisions with Respect to Withdrawals under Category (1) (WB-
Supported IIGF Guarantees under Part I of the Project) in the table in Section
IV.A of this Schedule.
(a) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, IIGF (and not
the Bank) shall remain solely and exclusively liable to the WB-Eligible
Guaranteed Party for the payment of any Claim under any WB-
Supported IIGF Guarantee.
(b) 
The Borrower may submit an application for withdrawal under Category
(1) in the table in Section IV.A of this Schedule for payment of a Claim
with respect to a particular WB-Supported IIGF Guarantee provided that
the Bank has received documentation, satisfactory to the Bank, that;
(i) 
IIGF has received a Claim against the WB-Supported IIGF
Guarantee which, at the time of its issuance by IIGF, was duly
designated as such and to which designation the Bank had agreed
in writing to such designation, in accordance 
with the
requirements of Annex 1 to the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; and
(ii) 
IIGF has: (1) properly assessed such Claim in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the Operations
Manual 
and 
including, 
without 
limitation, 
the 
Claims
Assessment Framework; and (2) the final approving authority of
IIGF, as set out in the Operations Manual, shall have determined
and documented in writing satisfactory to the Bank that such
Claim is duly payable in accordance with the terms of the WB-
Supported IIGF Guarantee against which such Claim was made.
(c) 
An application for withdrawal submitted by the Borrower to the
Bank in accordance with this paragraph 2 may request direct
payment by the Bank to the authorized WB-Eligible Guaranteed
Party. Any such payment shall be:
(i) 
limited to the amount that, at the time of the application
for withdrawal, is equal to the difference between the
amount allocated from time to time to Category (1) in
the table in Section IV.A of this Schedule less any
previous 
withdrawals under this paragraph 
2 
for
payment of a Claim properly made and assessed against
a WB-Supported IIGF Guarantee;
(ii) 
subject to the provisions of Annex 2 to the Schedule to
the Project Agreement; and
-12-
(iii) 
witl out prejudice to the rights of the Bank under Article
VII of the General Conditions.
(d) 
In the tvent that the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance allocated from
time to tim< in Category (1) in the table in Section IV.A of the
Schedule 2 n the case of withdrawal pursuant to paragraph 2 of
Section IV B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is
insufficient :o pay in full any Claim validly made against a WB-
Suppor:ed I HGF Guarantee, then IIGF shall remain solely and
exclusively responsible for the payment of the difference
between the amount of such Claim and amount of Loan proceeds
so avail able
3. 
The Closing Date is March' 1, 2018.
- 13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each March
15 and September 15, the first installment to be payable on the nineteenth (19"')
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount and the last installment to be payable on the thirty-fourth (34 h) Interest
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
The following table sets forth the percentage of the Disbursed Amount payable
on each Principal Payment Date
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
First 
5.16%
Second 
5.29%
Third 
5.42%
Fourth 
5.56%
Fifth 
5.70%
Sixth 
5.84%
Seventh 
5.98%
Eighth 
6.13%
Ninth 
6.29%
Tenth 
6.44%
Eleventh 
6.61%
Twelfth 
6.77%
Thirteenth 
6.94%
Fourteenth 
7.11%
Fifteenth 
7.29%
Sixteenth 
7.47%
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after
September 15, 2034, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate
amount of all such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
-14-
4. 
Notwithstanding the prc visic ns of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Coriverion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Currency, the imount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on any Princir al Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be deterninec by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination in mmediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that refic cts I he amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank unde - the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if th.- Ba ik so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rat. component of the Screen Rate.
If the Withdrawn Loan Balai ce is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisioas of this Schedu le shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of an IIGF-
project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
"Affected Persons" means, collectively, all such Affected Persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Articles of Association" means the Articles of Association of IIGF in effect as
of the date of this Agreement, and as the same may be amended from time to
time, provided that the Bank shall have provided no objection in writing to any
amendment that may materially and adversely affect the ability of IIGF to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4. 
"Bank Indonesia" means Bank Indonesia, the central Bank of the Borrower, or
any successor thereto.
5. 
"Bank Indonesia Policy Rate" means the policy rate reflecting the monetary
policy adopted by Bank Indonesia and announced to the public from time to time.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Claim" means an eligible claim made by a beneficiary of an IIGF Guarantee to
IIGF under its respective IIGF Guarantee Agreement, and which is received,
processed and determined by IIGF to be payable in accordance with the
Operations Manual and the relevant I1GF Guarantee Agreement. 
"Claims"
means more than one Claim.
8. 
"Claims Assessment Framework" means IIGF's claims assessment framework,
dated August 2011, consistent with the Operations Manual and acceptable to the
Bank, as such framework may be revised from time to time by IIGF with the
prior agreement of IIGF and the Bank.
-16-
9. 
"Consultant Guidelines" me ins the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2( 11.
10. 
"Contracting Agency" mea is any Local Government, line ministry or other
agency of the Borrow .r, a; defined under the applicable regulations of the
Borrower and responsible f r an IIGF-project. "Contracting Agencies" means
more than one Contracting A gency.
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Environmental and Soc.al IV anagement Framework issued by IIGF, dated April
27, 2012 and acceptable to tl e Bank, included in the Operations Manual, meeting
the requirements of Secion .D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and paragraph 1
of Section [.E of the 3che Jule to the Project Agreement, and including the
requirement; for the Resettl:ment Policy Framework, each Resettlement Action
Plan, the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, and each Indigenous Peoples
Plan, as such ESMF may b revised from time to time by HGF with the prior
written agree-ment of IlGF ai d the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or
annexes to such framework.
12. 
"Environmental Manageme at Plan" or "EMP" means each environmental
managemen-: plan for each IGF-project, setting forth the measures to be taken
during the implementation of such IIGF-project to eliminate or offset adverse
environmental impacts of such implementation or to reduce such impacts to
acceptable levels, and sett ng forth the actions needed to implement such
measures, to be prepared and implemented by the relevant Contracting Agency
and/or Sponsor, as applcabl ;, and in each case meeting the requirements set out
in the Environmental and Scial Management Framework, in the case of a WB-
Supported ILGF-project, acc eptable to the Bank, as such plan may be revised
from time to time by JGF in accordance with the Environmental and Social
Management Framewoik, a id in the case of any WB-Supported HGF-project,
with the prior written a reei aent of IGF and the Bank. Such term includes any
schedules or annexes to s ich plan. "Environmental Management Plans" or
"EMPs" means more than or e EMP.
13. 
"Environmental Safeguards Specialist" means the specialist engaged by IIGF,
pursuant to Section III of Sc hedule 2 to this Agreement, with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and. IGF, and retained until completion of the Project to
provide expertise on envirmnental assessment and implementation of IIGF-
projects in accordance with the Operations Manual and the Environmental and
Social Manigement Fra rnew ork.
14. 
"General Conditions" :near s the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General C ondi:ions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
-17-
15. 
"Guaranteed Party" " means a beneficiary of an IIGF Guarantee under an IIGF
Guarantee Agreement properly issued by HGF in accordance with the Operations
Manual. "Guaranteed Parties" means more than one Guaranteed Party.
16. 
"IIGF" and "Indonesia Infrastructure Guarantee Fund" means PT. Penjaminan
Infrastruktur Indonesia (Persero), a limited liability company formed under the
laws of the Republic of Indonesia pursuant to Government Regulation No.
35/2009 and wholly owned by the Republic of Indonesia.
17. 
"IIGF Guarantee" means a guarantee provided by IIGF pursuant to an IIGF
Guarantee Agreement in accordance with the Operations Manual and the IIGF
Regulations (and includes, but is not limited to, the WB-Supported IIGF
Guarantees). "IIGF Guarantees" means more than one Guarantee.
18. 
"IIGF Guarantee Agreement" means any contract of guarantee between IIGF and
a Guaranteed Party (and includes, but is not limited to, the WB-Supported IIGF
Guarantee Agreements). "IIGF Guarantee Agreement" means more than one
IIGF Guarantee Agreement.
19. 
"IIGF-project" means each PPP: (a) which is located within the territory of the
Borrower; (b) in respect of which IIGF has undertaken appraisal in accordance
with the Operations Manual; (c) that is an infrastructure project eligible under
Presidential Regulation No.67/2005 as amended by Presidential Regulation No.
13/2010 and Presidential Regulation No. 56/2011, or subsequent amendment; (d)
which utilizes a PPP structure or such other contractual arrangements in which
contract or contracts is/are awarded as part of a competitive and transparent
process; (e) which complies with the provisions of the Operations Manual; and
(f) in respect of which IIGF has issued an IIGF Guarantee. "IIGF-projects"
means more than one IIGF-project.
20. 
"IIGF Regulations" means the Articles of Association; Presidential Regulation
No.67/2005, as amended by Presidential Regulation No. 13/2010 and Presidential
Regulation No. 56/2011 Concerning Cooperation Between Government and
Business Enterprise on Provision of Infrastructure and subsequent amendments,
Government Regulation No. 35/2009 Concerning State Capital Participation of
Republic of Indonesia for Establishment of Limited Liability Company Engaging
in Infrastructure Guarantee, Government Regulation No. 88/2010, No. 55/2011
Concerning Additional State Capital Participation of Republic of Indonesia for
Establishment of Limited Liability Company Engaging in Infrastructure
Guarantee and subsequent amendments, Ministry of Finance Decree No.
200/KMK.06/2012 Concerning Increase of Authorised Capital, Capital Injection
and Amendment of Articles of Association of IIGF, Presidential Decree No.
78/2010 Concerning Infrastructure Guarantee in Cooperation Projects through
the IIGF, and Minister of Finance Regulation No. 260/2010 Concerning
- 18 -
Infrastructure Guarante: in Cooperation Projects between the Government and
Business Entities.
21. 
"Indigenous Peoples" neans those social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct
social and caltural identity, , nd that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the
development process affected by an IIGF-project or any part thereof as follows:
(a) masyar6kat adat (cistor iary law communities) based on lineage or locality
and bound by customar,r lay with characteristics including: (i) self identification
as a distinct indigenous cu tural group; (ii) collective attachment to ancestral
territories and to the natur il resources in the territories; and (iii) customary
cultural, ec:)nomic, soi.ial, or political institutions; and (b) Komunitas Adat
Terpencil (1A ) (IsolatiA ar d Vulnerable communities), a category of customary
law communities designate I by the Borrower that live in isolated areas with
characteristics including: (i) collective attachment to ancestral territories and to
the natural resources in the :erritories; (ii) customary cultural, economic, social,
or political institutions; (iii: an indigenous language; (iv) having a subsistence
economy; (v) using sirr ple I ools and technology; (vi) having a high dependence
on the environment and loce i natural resources; and (vii) having restricted access
to social, ec:nomic, anc political services.
22. 
"Indigenous Peoples Flan" or "IPP" means, for any IIGF-project, the plan
prepared by the Contractinj Agency or Sponsor, as applicable, in accordance
with the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and, in the case of each WB-
Supported IGF-projecl, ac:eptable to the Bank, giving details of the rules,
guidelines and procedu -es r eeded to: (a) involve Indigenous Peoples, through a
process 
of free, prior -nd 
informed consultation, in the design 
and
implementa ion of each 1IG- -project in locations in which such people reside or
make their living and tffec them; and (b) design and implement measures to
provide benefits which ire s )cially and culturally acceptable to them, and reduce,
mitigate and offset adverse impacts of the IIGF-project, as such plan may be
revised froni time to time by IIGF in accordance with the IPPF and, in the case of
each WB-Supported IIGF-p: oject, with the prior written agreement between IGF
and the Bank. 
Such term includes any schedules or annexes to such plan.
"Indigenous Peoples Plans" )r "IPPs" means more than one IPP,
23. 
"Indigenou 
Peoples Plann ng Framework" or "IPPF" means the Indigenous
Peoples Planning FramewDrk, included in the Environmental and Social
Management Framewor k an I the Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank and
adopted by IIGF, setting a it: potential impacts of the Project on Indigenous
Peoples; p'ans for C ntracting Agencies/Sponsors for carrying out social
assessment for each II GF--)roject; a framework for ensuring free, prior, and
informed consultations with the affected Indigenous Peoples communities on the
design and implementation :f the IIGF-project, during HGF-project preparation
and implementation; instit' itional arrangements for screening IIGF-project -
supported ectivities, evalua:ing their effects on Indigenous Peoples, preparing
- 19-
Indigenous Peoples Plans, and addressing grievances; monitoring and reporting
arrangements, and disclosure arrangements to ensure that Indigenous Peoples
derive benefits from the IIGF-project which are socially, economically and
culturally appropriate, and gender and inter-generationally inclusive, as such
IPPF may be revised from time to time by IIGF with the prior written agreement
between IGF and the Bank.
24. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan" or "LARAP" means, for any
IIGF-project, a resettlement and rehabilitation action plan prepared by the
Contracting Agency or Sponsor, as applicable, consistent with the Resettlement
Policy Framework and, in the case of each WB-Supported IIGF-project,
acceptable to the Bank, giving details of the agreed provisions for compensation,
rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Affected Persons under the IIGF-
project, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to
implement such agreed provisions, as such plan may be revised in accordance
with the IPPF and, in the case of each WB-Supported IIGF-project, with the prior
written agreement between IGF and the Bank. Such term includes any schedules
or annexes to such plan. "Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plans" or
"LARAPs" means more than one LARAP.
25. 
"Lender" means a commercial lender to an IIGF-project. "Lenders" means more
than one Lender.
26. 
"Local Government" means a government at the sub-national level of the
Borrower. "Local Governments" means more than one Local Government.
27. 
"Operations Manual" means the Operations Manual, adopted by IGF on July 18,
2012, meeting the requirements of paragraph 3 of Section LB of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and paragraph 2 of Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, and satisfactory to HGF and the Bank and as such manual may be
revised from time to time by IIGF with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
28. 
"PPP" means public-private partnership. "PPPs" means more than one PPP.
29. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
30. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 16, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
31. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the IIGF.
- 20 -
32. 
"Recourse Agreement" meal is, with respect to each IIGF Guarantee Agreement,
the corresponding agreemei it that UGF shall enter into with the responsible
Contracting Agency corisistc at with the requirements specified in the Operations
Manual. "Recourse Agremc ats" means more than one Recourse Agreement.
33, 
"Resettlement Policy Iram:work" or "RPF" means the Resettlement Policy
Framework acceptable to tf e Bank, included in the Environmental and Social
Management Framewo-k a:kd the Operations Manual adopted by IIGF, and
giving detai.s of provisi:)ns I or land acquisition, compensation, rehabilitation and
resettlement assistance, detei mination of project sites and linked sites (as defined
in such Resettlement P:licy Framework), consultations, grievance mechanisms
and disclosure to Affected P.-rsons, as such Resettlement Policy Framework may
be amended from time to ti ne with prior written agreement between IIGF and
the Bank.
34. 
"Rupiah" means Rupial, the currency of the Borrower.
35. 
"Social Safeguards Spe:iali. t" means the specialist engaged by IIGF pursuant to
Section III of Schedule 2 to his Agreement with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank and IIGF, aid rotained until completion of the Project to provide
expertise or social asse;sme it and implementation of IIGF-projects, including of
LARAPs ard IPPs in a-cor lance with the Operations Manual, the Resettlement
Policy Framework and ihe Ii digenous Peoples Planning Framework.
36. 
"Sponsor" means a private i: ivestor or sponsor undertaking a PPP that is an IIGF-
project. "Sponsors" means aore than one Sponsor.
37. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agremer t" means the agreement referred to in Section L.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agieement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan availat le to IIGF.
38. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means tl e loan provided by the Borrower to IIGF pursuant to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreen ent.
39. 
"Technical Assistance Actil ity" means each activity that may be developed and
implemented by IIGF und:-r Part 2 of the Project fully consistent with the
Operations Manual.
40. 
"WB-Eligible Guaranteed I arty" means, with respect to a WB-Supported IIGF-
project, either: (a) the PPP )roject company for such project for which the WB-
Supported I IGF Guarantee 
ill support debt service of Lender(s) to such project;
or (b) Lender(s) pro-idin; debt financing to such project. 
"WB-Eligible
Guaranteed Parties" rians nore than one WB-Eligible Guaranteed Party.
- 21 -
41. 
"WB-Eligible Risk" means, with respect to a WB-Supported IIGF-project, a risk
listed in paragraph 3 of Annex 1 to the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
"WB-Eligible Risks" means more than one WB-Eligible Risk.
42. 
"WB-Supported IIGF Guarantee" means each IIGF Guarantee meeting the
requirements of Annex 1 to the Schedule to the Project Agreement, covering debt
service defaults on loan(s) for a WB-Supported IIGF-project, financed in whole
or in part by the proceeds of the Loan that is fully consistent with the Operations
Manual and the IIGF Regulations. 
"WB-Supported IIGF Guarantees" means,
collectively, more than one WB-Supported Guarantee.
43. 
"WB-Supported IGF Guarantee Agreement" means each contract for an IIGF
Guarantee on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, supported in whole or
in part by the proceeds of the Loan, covering debt service default on loan(s) for a
WB-Supported IIGF-project, fully consistent with the requirements set out in this
Agreement, the Operations Manual and the IIGF Regulations. "WB-Supported
IIGF Guarantees" means more than one WB-Supported IIGF Guarantee.
44. 
"WB-Supported IIGF-project" means an IIGF-project: (a) which does not
involve an activity on the negative list set out in Annex 3 to the Schedule to the
Project Agreement; (b) with respect to which IIGF has issued or will issue an
WB-Supported IIGF Guarantee for a WB-Eligible Risk in favor of a WB-Eligible
Guaranteed Party; and (c) with respect to which the Bank has issued a no
objection letter for the use of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1)
in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. "WB-Supported
IIGF-projects" means more than one WB-Supported IIGF-project.
45. 
"WB-Supported Claim" means a Claim made and processed fully in compliance
with this Agreement and the Operations Manual which is made against a WB-
Supported IIGF Guarantee Agreement. 
"WB-Supported Claim" means more
than one WB-Supported Claim.
