OFICKA
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8122-CN
Loan Agreement
(Sichuan Wudu Irrigated Agriculture Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
1\, 
2012 between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
Appendix 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
($100,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity (Sichuan) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Autho zed Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
4
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the coverage of irrigation
services in the Project Area in order to increase agricultural production; (b) provide water
supply, in bulk, to small rural communities and industries in the Project Area; and (c)
introduce a community-based participatory approach in the management of water
facilities and infrastructure and increase of production capacity of higher-value agro-
products in the Project Area to ensure the sustainable development of agriculture.
The Project, which constitutes the second phase of the Wudu Scheme of
Sichuan, consists of the following parts subject to modifications thereof as the Borrower
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part 1: Construction of Main Irrigation System
(a) 
Construction and operation of the second phase of the Wudu Scheme to irrigate
about 70,200 hectares of land, as well as to supply water to urban and rural areas
and water to industries in the Project Area, and consisting of two systems:
(i) 
construction of branch canals from the right and left segments of the
Wudu Reservoir to irrigate areas directly under said Reservoir; and
(ii) 
construction of a new main irrigation system consisting of:
(A) 
construction of Xizi Main Canal with a total length of about 108
km to divert water from the Wudu Reservoir to irrigate areas
under said Canal in the Project Area and consisting of numerous
structures including tunnels, aqueducts, syphons, gates and other
structures;
(B) 
construction of a reservoir at Jinfeng with intake from the Xizi
Main Canal with a total storage capacity of 98 million cubic
meters consisting of tunnels, aqueducts, syphons, gates and other
structures including an asphalt concrete core rock-fill dam with a
height of 88m and a chest length of 454.87m, an irrigation intake
and a tunnel to supply and regulate the supply of water to the
irrigation system to be constructed as referred in this Part 1(a)
(ii); and
(C) 
construction of Jinlong sub-main canal and 16 branch canals
consisting of numerous structures including tunnels, aqueducts,
syphons, gates and other structures to divert water to irrigate
-6-
areas covered under the Xizi Main Canal to be constructed as
referred in this Part 1(a)(ii)(A).
Part 2: Development of CDD-based On-farm Works in Demonstration Areas
1. 
Carrying out of on-farm development works under community demand driven
("CDD") approach in selected demonstration areas in the counties of Jiangyou,
Zitong and Yanting (Project Counties) of Mianyang City covering about 766
hectares within the irrigated area covered by the second phase of the Wudu
Water Diversion and Irrigation Scheme as referred to in Part 1(a) above and
consisting of:
(a) 
construction of on-farm works including 1 lateral canal and 3 sub-lateral
canals with a total length of about 48 kms;
(b) 
establishment and development of Water Users' Associations (WUAs)
and enhancement of producer co-operatives based on community
demand driven approach around a lateral canal area or sub-lateral areas
in each demonstration area as referred to in this Part 2 to organize and
implement the construction, operation and maintenance of on-farm
works referred to in Part 2(a) above; and
(c) 
provision of an integrated package of agricultural inputs and supporting
services in each demonstration area referred to in this Part 2 to small
holder agricultural producers and farmer groups to maximize the benefit
of irrigated water delivered to the field and help increase farmer's
production and income.
-7-
Part 3: Institutional Capacity Building and Project Management Support
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for the institutional strengthening of the Project
Counties and Sichuan to implement the Project, including:
(a) 
capacity building through, inter alia, study tours and training;
(b) 
consulting services and office equipment; and
(c) 
acquisition of vehicles to provide necessary technical support for
implementing the activities under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Categories (1) through (5) set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule available
to the Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan) and shall cause the Project
Implementation Entity (Sichuan) to make said proceeds available to Mianyang
City and the Project Counties, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, and the following principal terms:
a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn).
b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years,
inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years.
c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity (Sichuan) to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
-9-
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Annex of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than February 15 and August 15 in each year, beginning on August 15,
2012.
2. 
The Borrower shall review the measures to be taken for project implementation
as may be proposed in the mid-term review of the Project referred to in paragraph
A.2 of Section II of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and shall take all
necessary steps, satisfactory as the Bank, to facilitate the implementation of the
recommendation resulting from said review.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan) to prepare and furnish to the
Bank as part of the Project Reports by not later than February 15 and August 15
in each year after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial
reports for the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan) to have the
Financial 
Statements 
audited 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
provisions 
of
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods and Works. 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
- 10-
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured
in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative
Region of the Borrower).
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for procurement of goods and works. The
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may
be used.
- 11 -
Procurement Methods
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding. 
In addition, the procedures to be
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People's Republic
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines:
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's country,
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline
for such submission.
(ii) 
Qualification 
requirements of bidders and the method of
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in
detail in the bidding documents.
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders.
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity, (Sichuan) as the case may be, in case of breach of contract
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the
required form and amount of such security.
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for
receipt of such bids.
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not
be required to be present at the bid opening.
- 12 -
(vii) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the
form of pass/fail requirements.
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity (Sichuan), as the case may be.
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined:
(A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall
not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents
or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank,
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they
can establish that they: 
(A) 
are legally and financially
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xii) All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids
is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall
not take place without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or a free and
open access website and shall identify the name and offered price
of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope
of the awarded contract.
(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity (Sichuan) shall have in place
provisions for bidders to protest.
- 13 -
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Community Participation in Procurement
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Single-source Selection
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 14 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General
Conditions; (b) if applicable, the Premium for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate
Collars in accordance with Section 2.07(c) of the General Conditions; and
(c) other Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in 
financed
Category 
Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works:
(a) works under Part 1(a)(ii)(A) and 
97,410,000 
84%
(C) of the Project carried out in
the Project Counties
750,000 
20%
(b) works under Part 2.1(a) of the
Project carried out in the Project
Counties
(2) 
Goods, equipment and materials 
270,000 
100%
under Part 1(a)(ii) A and C, and
Part 2.1(a) and Part 3.1(b) and (c)
of the Project
(3) 
Consultants' services under Part 3 
510,000 
100%
of the Project
(4) 
Study tours, training and 
710,000 
100%
workshops under Part 3 of the
Project
- 15 -
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in 
financed
Category 
Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(5) 
WUA establishment cost under 
100,000 
100%
Part 2.1(b) of the Project
(6) 
Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(7) 
Premium for Interest Rate Caps or 
0 
Amount payable
Interest Rate Collars 
pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this
Agreement and
Section 4.05(c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 30, 2011, for Eligible
Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by
(b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15 
2.63%
Beginning 
September 
15, 
2017
through September 15, 2035
On March 15, 2036 
2.69%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
- 17-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruptionin Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
4. 
"Dam Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan" means the Plan of
Sichuan (as hereinafter defined), prepared pursuant to paragraph C. 10 of Section
I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, for supervision and quality assurance
of the construction of the Project Dam.
5. 
"Dam Emergency Preparedness Plan" means the Plan of Sichuan, prepared
pursuant to paragraph C. 10 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement
detailing, inter alia, the roles of responsible parties during possible emergency
situations relating to the Project Dam.
6. 
"Dam Instrumentation Plan" means the Plan of Sichuan prepared pursuant to
paragraph C. 10 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, setting out
measures for the installation of instruments to monitor and record the behavior of
the Project Dam.
7. 
"Dam Operation and Maintenance Plan" means the Plan of Sichuan, prepared
pursuant to paragraph C.10 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, setting out measures for the operation and maintenance of the Project
Dam.
8. 
"Dam Safety Panel" means the panel appointed by Sichuan on May 12, 2010
consisting of at least three (3) experts for the purposes, inter alia, of reviewing
the safety aspects of the Upstream Dams and the Project Dam and to be
maintained according to the provision of paragraph C.8 of section I of the
schedule to the Project Agreement.
9. 
"Dam Safety Plans" means collectively the following Plans prepared by Sichuan
pursuant to paragraph C.10 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement: (i) the Dam Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan;
- 19 -
(ii) the Dam Emergency Preparedness Plan; (iii) the Dam Instrumentation Plan;
and (iv) the Dam Operation and Maintenance Plan.
10. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project and the construction of the Wudu Dam and the Wudu Reservoir, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced
Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" and the acronym "EMP" means the plan of
Sichuan Wudu Irrigated Agriculture Development Project adopted by it dated
April 12, 2011; such plan setting forth, inter alia, the assessment of
environmental impacts of the Project, recommendations for mitigation of adverse
impacts and enhancement of positive impacts based on such assessment, and the
guidelines 
for 
environmental 
screening 
and 
monitoring 
of 
Project
implementation, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior
written approval of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes
supplemental to each such Plan;
12. 
"Financial Management Manual" means the Financial Management Manual
dated December 15, 2011, adopted by Sichuan which sets out the policies and
procedures for establishing and maintaining a financial management system to be
implemented for carrying out of the Project.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
14. 
"Mianyang City" means the Borrower's city of Mianyang or any successor
thereto;
15. 
"Pest Management Plan" and the acronym "PMP" mean the Pest Management
Plan dated April 12, 2011, adopted by Sichuan and to be implemented or caused
to be implemented by it for improving integrated pest management activities
during the design, construction and operation of the Project, including
environmental, and safety risk assessment, capacity building, grievance handling
mechanisms, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements, as such plan may be
amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank; and such
Plan includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to such plan;
16. 
"Project Area" means the area where the Project will be carried out.
- 20 -
17. 
"Project Dam" means the Dam to be constructed under Part 1(a)(ii)(B) of the
Project.
18. 
"Procurement and Financial Management Information System" means the
system, acceptable to the Bank, to be installed for the Project by the Project
Implementing Entity to improve internal controls, monitor the entire procurement
process and financial transactions, identify and cross-checks errors, and improve
external reviews and auditing, and to be applied in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph B.4 of Section II of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May
2010.
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated October 28, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Project Agreement" means the Project agreement for the Project between
Sichuan and the Bank, dated the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank,
and such term includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
said Agreement.
22. 
"Project Counties" means the counties of Jiangyou, Zitong and Yanting in
Mianyang City of Sichuan collectively, and any successor thereto; and "Project
County" means, individually, any such county.
23. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Plan dated December 16, 2011,
adopted by Sichuan setting out the detailed arrangements and procedures for
implementing and supervising the Project, and to be carried out by Sichuan in the
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time
with the prior written approval of the Bank; and such term includes all
attachments and annexes supplemental to said Plan.
24. 
"Project Implementing Entity" and the acronym "PIE" mean Sichuan.
25. 
"RAP" means the Resettlement Action Plan dated April 12, 2011 duly adopted
by Sichuan and to be implemented or caused to be implemented by it in the
context of carrying out the second phase of the Wudu Scheme under Part I of the
Project, which plan sets out, inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures
governing the acquisition of land required for said part of the Project and related
-21-
facilities, including construction camps, borrow pits, spoil disposal sites,
resettlement sites and quarries; (b) principles, actions and measures for the
payment of compensation to Displaced Persons under the Project and for their
resettlement and rehabilitation; (c) a due diligence review of the action and
measures taken for the resettlement, rehabilitation and payment of compensation
to Displaced Persons under the Wudu Dam and the Wudu Reservoir, and the
actions and measures to be taken to address any deficiency identified or that may
be indentified in the future, including the principles and procedures to be
followed in respect thereof; and (d) reporting and monitoring arrangements to
ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and
annexes supplemental to said plan.
26. 
"Sichuan" means the Borrower's Province of Sichuan or any successor thereto.
27. 
"Study tours, Training and Workshops" means for purposes of Section IV of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per
diem of trainees attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars, the cost
of organizing workshops, training and seminars, and the cost of delivering
training (excluding consultants fees) such as rental of training space and training
equipment and other logistical costs, all as yearly budgeted and approved by the
Borrower and the Bank.
28. 
"Upstream Dams" means collectively the existing Heping dam and the Wudu
dam located in an area in Sichuan lying upstream of the facilities to be
constructed under the Project and "Upstream Dam" means, individually, any
such Dam.
29. 
"WUA" means a Water Users' Association to be established and operated in each
Project County by farmer households as a non-profitable social organization
based upon democratic consultations in accordance with the Borrower's
document No.502 (Nong Shui 2005) and the WUA Manual (as hereinafter
defined) for the purpose of carrying out activities under Part 2 of the Project.
30. 
"WUA Manual" means the Manual dated August 2, 2011, prepared and adopted
by Sichuan setting out the principles, procedures and arrangements for the
establishment and operation of WUAs in the Project Area.
31. 
"Wudu Dam" means the Dam constructed by Sichuan over the Fujiang river in
2011 and financed as a separate scheme from the Wudu Scheme (as hereinafter
defined).
32. 
"WUA establishment cost" means the cost incurred by a WUA for its
establishment, including registration fee, and office furniture, supplies, and
equipment.
- 22 -
33. 
"Wudu Reservoir" means the reservoir constructed in 2011 to store water from
the Wudu Dam and financed as a separate scheme from the Wudu Scheme.
34. 
"Wudu Scheme" means the Wudu Water Diversion and Irrigation Scheme
located in Mianyang City of Sichuan, a large-scale water diversion scheme
consisting of the following two phases:
(a) 
the first phase partially financed by the International Development
Association completed in 2002 that included, the construction of the
Wudu barrage on the Fujiang river, the general main canal, diversion
gate, Fuzi main canal and its branch and lateral canals and providing
water to irrigate about 84,667 hectares of land in the central part of
Mianyang City and in parts of Suining city of Sichuan; and
(b) 
the second phase consisting of construction of branch canals from the
Wudu Reservoir, Xizi main canal, Jinfeng reservoir, Jinlong sub-main
canal and 16 branch canals as set out in Part I of the Project and to be
partially financed by the Loan in order to irrigate about 70,200 hectares
of land in the Project Areas as well as to provide some water for urban,
rural and industrial use in the Project Area.
