OFFICIAL
j MOCWiNTS
LOAN NUMBER 8171-CN
Loan Agreement
(Chongqing Urban Rural Integration Project II-Health)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
2rl 
// 
,2012
7
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
2 
/ 
,2012, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA ("Borrow7 r") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Inferest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such
non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and te Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline .s the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Kt. ' 
S
Title:-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
~ 
,. 0A4~
Title: C &'L~-,L- 
A 
CCA
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the access of populations in selected
non-metropolitan areas to county/district level hospital-based services, raising the
efficiency of service production and improving the quality of care in the targeted
hospitals.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Strengthening Service Delivery Performance
1. 
Institutional Readiness for Reform
(a) 
Introduction of instruments and management techniques through the
provision of technical advisory services and equipment to carry out sets
of activities at Projeci Hospitals, including, inter alia.
(i) 
installation of a standardized and uniform cost accounting
system, including to measure and disaggregate costs related to
patient care, diagnostic tests, administration and overhead, and
capital investments;
(ii) 
strengthening of coordination between Project Hospitals with
lower level facilities, consisting of a mix of measures to link
professionals and organizations of the health system and
emphasize patient-centered care integration;
(iii) 
development 
and 
application 
of evidence-based 
Clinical
Pathways fcr in-patient and 
emergency cases 
in Project
Hospitals, and promotion of the rational use of antibiotics;
(iv) 
continuous quality improvement, consisting of a formalized and
ongoing effort to improve the quality-of-care and to provide
services that meet or exceed patient expectations through
structured organization-wide planning and implementation; and
(v) 
strengthening 
traditional 
Chinese medicine, 
consisting 
of
development of treatment regimens and Clinical Pathways to
address non-communicable diseases, preparation of nursing
protocols to standardize therapies and establishment of a center
for preventive care and health promotion to focus on prevention
of complications 
from 
diseases 
such 
as 
diabetes 
and
hypertension.
-6-
(b) 
Carrying out, through CQHB, of two sets of activities, including, inter
alia,
(i) 
the establishment of a uniform system of monitoring to track
hospital performance based on the Hospital Management
Assessment Guidelines of the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
and
(ii) 
a number of studies and evaluations to address knowledge gaps
related to the health sector's reform agenda and evaluations of
the implementation of the above-mentioned packages.
2. 
Training
Provision of a series of theoretical and hands-on training aimed at: (a) developing
a cadre of specialists; (b) upgrading the skills of medical professionals at county,
township and village level; and (c) enhancing the skills of managers, including
hospital directors, nursing directors, and health bureau officials.
3. 
Health Management Information System (HMIS)
Supporting the on-going efforts as the national pilot to improve HMIS in Project
Hospitals, through the provision of hardware, software, training of staff in the
utilization of the system, and the provision of networking and telemedicine
capabilities.
4. 
Implementation Support, Monitoring and Supervision by CQHB
Supporting the activities associated with Project implementation, monitoring and
supervision of this Part A of the Project.
Part B: Improvement of County/District Level Health Facilities
1. 
Construction of new facilities in the compounds of the Project Hospitals, or in a
different new site, including in-patient building, out-patient service building, and
medical technology building, consistent with the national standards on hospital
construction, 
incorporating flexible hospital design 
and energy efficient
requirements.
2. 
Implementation Support andi Capacity Building
Supporting the activities associated with Project implementation and monitoring
and evaluation of this Part B of the Project, through the provision of costs
associated 
with services 
and technical 
assistance 
required 
for policy
development, training, design review, supervision, regular administrative and
logistics management, procurement, financial, and disbursement processing,
contract management, financial management and project management.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available
the entire proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium
for Interest Rate Caps; or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions)
shall be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a
grace period of six (6) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time t-o time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause te Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take, all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project, to enable
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its
undertakings under this Agreement and the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain
all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project and
provide promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as
may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that prior to
making any disbursement against the allocation to a Project County, the Bank has
reviewed, and cleared the on-lending, arrangement between the Project
Implementing Entity and such Project County.
-2-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity and the Project Counties to comply with the
provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in acoordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semesier, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
March 15 and September 15 each year commencing March 15, 2013.
2. 
For purposes of section 5.03(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project (Project Implementation Report) and related plan
required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank no later than four
(4) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part
of the Project Report, not later than March 15 and September 15 each year,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordiance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements
-3-
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and the additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
6,650,0000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training, Study Tours,
Workshops, and
Incremental Operating
Costs for Part A of the
Project
(2) Part B of the Project
(a) Works and Goods for 
46,730,000 
73%
Batch One Hospitals
(b) Works and Goods for 
41,470,000 
85%
-4-
Batch Two Hospitals
4,900,000 
100%
(c) Consultants' services,
non-consulting
services, Goods
Training, Study Tours
and Workshops
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is August 31, 2017.
-5-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date[, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2018
through September 15, 2036 
2.63%
On March 15, 2037 
2.69%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-6-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the dat-e of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-7-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"AWPB" means the annual work plan and budget prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, and approved by the Bank, for each Fiscal Year, giving
details of all activities to be financed under Parts A and B of the Project, along
with specific performance indicators, and which serves as the planning tool for
the implementation of the Project.
3. 
"Batch One Hospitals" means the Dianjiang, Qianjiang, Wanzhou and Fuling
Project Hospitals.
4. 
"Batch Two Hospitals" means the Chengkou, Tongnan, Youyang, and Wushan
Project Hospitals.
5. 
"Category" means a category ;et forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Clinical Pathways" means a multi-disciplinary plan outlining the main clinical
interventions to be performed and inputs to be used in a hospital for a particular
treatment or procedure, and used to plan, coordinate, deliver, monitor, review,
cost and document care.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8. 
"CQDRC" means Chongqing Development and Reform Commission, or any of
its successors.
9. 
"CQFB" means Chongqing Finance Bureau, or any of its successors.
10. 
"CQHB" means Chongqing Health Bureau, or any of its successors.
11. 
"CQPMO" means the Chongqing Project Management Office, referred to in
paragraph I.A 1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
12. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
-8-
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
13. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" and the acronym "EMP" 
mean the
Environmental Management Plan of February 2012, duly adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity and to be implemented by it for the purpose of carrying out
the Project, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of
the Project, as well as adminustrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the
implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to such plan.
14. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, covering the period January
1 through December 31.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
16. 
"HBPMO" means the Chongqing Health Bureau Project Management Office,
referred to in paragraph I.Al(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
17. 
"HMIS" means Health Management Information System.
18. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred
by the Project Implementing Entity, based on AWPB approved by the Bank, on
account of the implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation of the
activities carried out under the Project on account of office supplies and
consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing
services, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space
rental, building and equipment maintenance, travel, lodging, and subsistence
allowances, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding
salaries, allowances, and other salary supplements of staff of the Borrower's
Recipient's civil service.
19. 
"Project Operational Manual" or the acronym "POM" mean the Project
Operational Manual to be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant
to Section I.A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and to be followed
until the completion of the Project, detailing, inter alia, the Project's institutional
and implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation arrangements,
financial management and procurement procedures, implementation schedules,
operations and maintenance management schedule, health package selection
-9-
criteria and guidelines, funds allocation process, and implementation procedures,
as such Manual may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"PIU" means any of the Pro.ect Implementing Units established at the Project
Hospitals, and referred to in paragraph I.A. 1(d) of Section I of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 30, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the
Project Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
24. 
"Project Counties" means collectively, the counties of Chengkou, Dianjiang,
Fuling, Qianjiang, Tongnan, Wanzhou, Wushan, Youyang; and "Project County"
means any of the Project Counties.
25. 
"Project Hospitals" means collectively, in respect of each Project County
(as hereinafter defined), the hospitals within its territory, already selected
by the Project County in agreement with the Bank, in which the Project is
to be carried out; and "Project Hospital" means any of the Project
Hospitals.
26. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Chongqing Municipality,
or any successor thereto.
27. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the Project Steering Committee, referred to
in 
paragraph 
I.A.1(a) of Section 
I of the 
Schedule to the 
Project
Agreement."Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
and Grants by World Bank B rrowers" dated January' 2011.
28. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or 
"RAPs" means, collectively, 
the RAP for
Wanzhou dated February 22, 2012, and the RAP for Wushan dated February 22,
2012, prepared by the Projezt Implementing Entity for purposes of carrying out
- 10 -
the Project, which plans shall set out, inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures
governing the acquisition of land required for the Project and related facilities,
including access roads, construction camps, borrow pits, spoil disposal sites,
resettlement sites and quarrie-s; (b) actions and measures for the payment of
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation;
(c) the criteria and procedutes for developing and implementing actions and
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts
resulting from the implementation of activities; and (d) reporting and monitoring
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be revised
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term
includes all schedules and agrlements supplemental to said plans.
29. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Resettlement Actions
Plans, and the Environmental Management Plan, and such term includes
any annexes or schedules to such instruments.
30. 
"Training, Study Tours, and Workshops" means for purposes of Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the reasonable cost, based on AWPB approved by
the Bank, of tuition, travel, lodging and per diem for trainees attending training,
study tours, workshops and seminars and the cost of delivering training, such as
services of trainers, rental of training space and training equipment and other
costs, directly related to such training, study tours and workshops acceptable to
the Bank.
