OFFICKR
LOAN NUMBER 8130-CN
Loan Agreement
(Chamngzli SuAtainable Urban Transport Project)
between
PE DPL E'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
EffERNA T]IONA L BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
LAND 
DEVELOPMENT
DatLed 
o 
,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
D 
7 to 
, 2012, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE R - LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), as such anount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the -proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a 3eriod of thirty days (30), then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal arlount o the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortizal ion sche dulo set Forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borr)wer may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the ter ns )f th. Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a char ge :f the- Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount, of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency. (iiI a ciange of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion o' thi: principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a V ria le Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate base d an a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; aid I iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
al.l or an3 pcrtion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
ol.tstandi g by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conv.rsion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is acceptedl by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
fin the Geiierfl CoIditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provision, of Artic le IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guideline;.
(c) 
Promptly followir g the Execution Date for an Interest Rate -Cap or
Interest IR ate Col ar for which the Borrower has requ6sted that the
premium le paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Boniower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itelf the umcunts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.0.(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated Iron itim - to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE E[[ - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrcwer declares its commitmeht to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrowe! shall -ause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity (Shar xi) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the Generad Condil ion; and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation up)n te provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrowur anI the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Ploject is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
SchedEle 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date.of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republi.- of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C, 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or- 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, Pec ple's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PI -OPLE'S REPUBLICO 
HINA
B,
Authorized 
re 
tive
ID TERNATIONAL BANK FOR
R ECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
B 
Ae
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve transport mobility in the central city of
Changzhi in a safe, efficient and energy-saving manner for all users.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Integrated Corridor Improvement
1. 
Improvement of approximately 8 km of Yingxiong Road, 5 km of Chengxi
Road, 8 km of Taihang Street, and 3 km of Fuhou Street corridors, including:
(a) construction of bus lanes; (b) rehabilitation or construction of road surface,
road markings and signs, non-motorized transport lanes and pedestrian walks,
bus bays and stops, and exit and entrance access points; (c) junction
channelization; (d) bridge reconstruction; (e) construction of protected safe
pedestrian overpasses and mid-block crossings; and (f) greening, lighting and
associated public works.
2. 
Construction of two (2) off-street parking facilities at the Jiahui Shopping Mall
and Bayi Square, in accordance with the parking strategy and pricing policy to be
developed under Part D o: the Project.
3. 
Improvements and provision of cycling facilities along the Project corridors,
including 
the 
carrying 
out of a 
small-scale 
publicly-shared 
bicycles
demonstration program.
Part B: Intelligent Urban Transport Management System
I. 
Provision of area traffic c.ontrol system and traffic command center equipment,
provision of Traffic Enfbrcement Equipment, provision of traffic information
system, and junction channelization at selected signalized junctions.
2. 
Provision of vehicles, and equipment, including on-board GPS devices, road
marking vehicles and high-reach maintenance vehicles.
-6-
Part C: Public Transport Infrastructure
I. 
Construction of a transfer hub at Bayi Square, and two (2) bus depots at the
current local bus co npar y headquarters at North Yingxiong Road, and at
Mafangtou in the s utLem part of the Changzhi city.
2. 
Upgrading of the Changzhi -owned local bus company dispatching center and bus
dispatch informati on r aanagement system, installation of monitoring equipment,
and prbvision of a )astengt r real-time service information system.
Part D: Instifuticnal Cal aci .y Duvelopment
1. 
Carrying out of pub ic consultation, and road user education program.
2. 
Carryin out of: (a) a r3nge of study tours and training activities for government
officials and urban tran: port professionals; and (b) thematic studies, including one
(1) on parking strategy and r ricing policy.
3. 
Provision of Project implemontation advisory and supervision services and Project
management suppor:.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arranfements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the entire proceeds of the Loan to the Project
Implementing Entity (Shanxi) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions)
shall be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a
grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cau,;e the Project Implementing Entity (Shanxi): (a) to
manage, operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it pursuant to paragraph I above in-accordance with arrangements
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, (b) to take, all required actions,
including provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to
facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the
Project, to enable the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity (Shanxi) to
comply with its undertakings under this Agreement and the Project Agreement;
and (c) to maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the
Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other
information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-8-
Section II. 
Project M, nilorinr. Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause ihe Project Implementing Entity (Shanxi) to monitor
and eyaluite the prcgres 
of the Project and prepare Project Reports in
accordance with th, provisi3ns of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of the in1icators referred to in paragraph A.1(b) of Section II of the
Project Agreemeni. 
Bach Project Report shall cover the period of one (1)
calendar semester, and slul be furnished to the Bank not later than one (1)
month after the end of he p :riod covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall, n:t laer than June 30, 2014, review with the Bank (mid-
term r view) the prog ess nade in the implementation of the Project, together
with ay recommex dat ion t te Bank, or the Project Implementing Entity (Shanxi)
may have cn the neads for I roject restructuring.
B. 
Finanqial Manageinent, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shal miLintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system' in accorda nce wit n the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without liritation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
preparl and furnish to Ihe Bimk, as part of the Project Report, not later than forty-
five (4k) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports' for the Proj -ct cove!ing the seiester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall hae its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Sect on 5.09b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statemeni s sh all c wer the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial State nents for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six moni hs (6) after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procuremi nt
All goods, works and serv ice. req iired for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall lie p ocuied in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
the Schedule to the Project Agrement.
-9-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from tirre to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to sut.h instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Works for the 
53,400,000 
50%
Project
(2) 
Goods, Consultants 
46,350,000 
100%
services, Non-
consulting services,
Training, Study
Tours and
Workshops, and
Incremental
Operating Costs
(3) 
Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(4) 
Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
-10-
B. 
Withdrawal Coin ditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding 1 he provi sions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for pay1ments made prio.r to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount ni it tc exc ed $20,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments
made prior to th..s date t ut )n oi after September 28, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures
under Categokies (1) and 12).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
-ll-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets fbrth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by(b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2017
through October 15, 2036 
2.50%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loa. have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount -of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment., Date, the Borrower -shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each suc.h withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies..
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
-12-
a: withdrawn anc outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following th. date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Paymeni Date commencing with the second Prinqipal Payment
late folc wing tht date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithsi and ing t ie provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
al: any tuine the .lank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices z re issue( i on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provision;; cf st ch sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdraw ds made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notw thslanding Ihe prov sions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currcy Convenion of a I or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved. Curren:y, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on an, Princij al Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, skiall be Jett rmir ed by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denoaination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflect; the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Ilank unler the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelints, the ex zhange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of 1his Sche dule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each L,oan Curency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount
- 13 -
APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"Changzhi" means Changzhi Municipal Government in Shanxi (as hereinafter
defined), or any successor thereto.
5. 
"CIU" means the Component Implementation Unit, referred to in paragraph
I.B. 1(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
6. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) th- involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" and the acronym "EMP" means .
the
Environmental Management Plan dated September 2011, duly adopted by the
Project Implementing Enlity and to be implemented by it for the purpose of
carrying -out the Project, which sets out the environmental protection measures in
respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to
ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to such plan.
8. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, covering the period January
1 through December 31.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
-14-
10. 
"Incremental Oporat ng C osts" means the incremental operating costs incurred by
Changzhi 
Municipil 
Government 
on 
account of the 
implementation,
mansgenent, mcnitoring and evaluation of the activities carried out under the
Project, includir g officc supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges,
communications, traaslat on services, mass media and printing services, vehicle
rental, operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and
equipment maint -nance, travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries
of contractual anI tempo ary staff, but excluding salaries, allowances, and other
salary supplements of staff of the civil service of the Borrower and Project
Implementing En tity (as I ereinafter defined)."
11. 
"Procurement GL ide ines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and lion.-consulting 3ervices under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Bon owirs" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Pin" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated Ncvember 16, 201 , and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelinas and p traE Taph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from tim - to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
13. 
"Project Implemcnting Ertity" means the Borrower's Province of Shanxi, or any
successor thereto
14. 
"PMC" means tha Projec Management Centre, referred to in paragraph I.B.1(b)
of the Schedule ta t6e ProJect Agreement and being a unit established under the
Chaiigzhi Munici:,al Dev lopment and Reform Commission.
15. 
"PSQ" means the Project Steering Group, referred to in paragraph I.B.1(a) of the
Schedule to the P!oject Agreement.
I 
16. "Resettlement Ac tion Pla i" or the acronym "RAP" means a Resettlement Action
Plan to be prepani d by Changzhi consistently with the RPF (as hereafter defined),
for p*ipKses of c arring out the Project, which plan shall set out, inter aliar (a)
the poinciples and procedires governing the acquisition of land required for the
Projoet a'.d relate d ficilities, including access roads, construction camps, borrow
pits, spoil disposgil si:es, r :settlement sites and quarries; (b) actions and measures
for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement
and rehabilitatic n; (c) the criteria and procedures 
for developing and
implmenting ac ion; and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the
adlerse social impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in
locations that ar, n)t directly identified in the RAP; and (d) reporting and
monitoring arran;ements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may
be revise I from time to t: me with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
such terri includes all atta:hments and annexes supplemental to said plan.
- 15 -
17. 
"Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework" or the acronym "RPF" 
means 
the
Resettlement Policy Framework dated 21 September 2011, prepared and adopted
by Changzhi, acceptable to the Bank, and referred to in paragraph D of Section I
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; said Framework setting out the
policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets,
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the
preparation of resettlement action plans as may be required for Project activities,
as said Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to said Framework.
18. 
"Shanxi" means the Borrower's Province of Shanxi, or any successor thereto.
19. 
"Traffic Enforcement Equipment" means closed-circuit television cameras, GPS
or other computer equipment to be installed on streets and/or in traffic police cars
for the exclusive purpose of managing traffic violations and accidents.
20. 
"Training, Study Tours, and Workshops" means for purposes of Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the reasonable cost, based on annual work plans
and budgets approved by the Bank, of travel, lodging and per diem for trainees
attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars and the cost of
delivering training, such as services of trainers, rental of training space and
training equipment and other costs, directly related to such training, study tours
and workshops acceptable to the Bank.
