OFFICIAL
DMIUMTS
LOAN NUMBER 8131-CN
Loan Agreement
(Zhanghu Railway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
8 
,2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
/ 8 , 
2012, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrowe") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars
($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
.2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days (30), then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September I in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Railways in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
86-10-6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve accessibility and mobility by
responding to existing and anticipated transport demand along the Hohhot-Zhangjiakou
(to Beijing) corridor through the provision of additional railway capacity, and reduction
of transport time for passengers and freight.
The Project consists of the following part, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objective:
Part A: 
Railway Line
1. 
Construction of a 286 km-long double-track, electrified, passenger-dedicated
high-speed rail line between the northern cities of Zhangjiakou and Hohhot, including
construction, renovation or rehabilitation of three stations, acquisition and installation of
goods, maintenance equipment, and rolling stock, as well as land acquisition and the
resettlement of Displaced Persons.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangement
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways, throughout the
implementation of the Project, maintain FCTIC with adequate powers, functions,
staff and resources satisfactory to the Bank in order to enable it to carry out
procurement and financial management with respect to the Project and to
supervise the implementation of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways, cause MRC to construct
the railway lines under the Project, including installing the equipment, in
accordance with:
(i) 
detailed implementation arrangements, including a time schedule,
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) 
appropriate technical standards, practices, and specifications.
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways, throughout the
implementation of the Project, ensure that the MRC maintains adequate number
of staff and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall, and through the Ministry of Railways as appropriate:
(a) take all necessary actions, including provision of timely consents and
approvals, to facilitate the implementation of the Project; and (b) maintain all
relevant records and documents related to the Project and provide promptly such
documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested by
the Bank from time to time.
5. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways, cause each of the
Provinces: (a) to provide full support, cooperation and assistance, and to take all
necessary actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals, as may
be required for facilitating the implementation of the Project and to enable the
Borrower to comply with its undertakings in this Agreement; and (b) to maintain
all relevant records and documents related to the Project and provide promptly
such documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested
by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
6. 
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, and through the Ministry of
Railways or MRC as appropriate, implement and cause the Provinces to
implement the Project in accordance with the Safeguards Instruments, all in a
manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. Without limitation to the
-7-
foregoing, the Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways and the
Provinces as appropriate:
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or
permanently, and the displacement of said people in the carrying out of
the Project or any part thereof;
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of people is
unavoidable, before initiating the implementation of any works which
would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to such
Displaced Persons compensation and, as applicable, relocate and
rehabilitate the Displaced Persons in accordance with the RAP and the
RAP Arrangement and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, fail to enforce, or waive the Safeguards
Instruments or any provisions thereof without the prior written
concurrence of the Bank;
(d) 
monitor on a six (6) month basis, the implementation of the Safeguards
Instruments, including the status of compliance thereof, in a manner and
in accordance with term of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, and
promptly after completion of each said monitoring, provide to the Bank a
report on the monitoring, including:
(i) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments;
(ii) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with
the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(iii) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions; and
(e) 
whenever required in terms of the RPF, the Borrower shall or shall cause
the Provinces to proceed to have a RAP:
(i) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) 
except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, submitted to the Bank
for review and approval; and
(iii) 
thereafter, adopted and publicly disclosed.
-8-
7. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 6 above, in situations where
any subsequent changes occur in alignment of the Zhanghu Railway Line, either
during implementation or at the detailed design stage, resulting in changes in the
severity of impacts, the Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank, and in
consultation with the Bank, shall cause the Ministry of Railways or the Counties
to prepare a supplementary RAP, consistent with the RPF, in a manner and a
timeframe satisfactory to the Bank, including measures for villages severely
affected by the Project, and implement the measures set out therein.
8. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Safeguards
Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
9. 
The Borrower shall, and through the Ministry of Railways as appropriate, ensure,
and shall cause the Provinces to ensure, that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, either January through
June or July through December, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report, starting
with the first full semester after the signing of this Agreement.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-9-
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Schedule.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of all goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be carried out by a qualified independent procurement agent, acceptable to the
Bank, engaged by the Borrower through the Ministry of Railways.
4. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
International 
Competitive 
Bidding. 
The provisions 
of paragraphs 
2.55
and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the
Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured 
in the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the
Borrower).
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, and Non-consulting services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
- 10 -
Procurement Methods
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding: 
Goods costing less than $500,000
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded under
NCB 
procedures. 
The procedures to be followed for National
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering
and Bidding of the People's Republic of China promulgated by order
No.21 of the President of the People's Republic of China on August 30,
1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the
Procurement Guidelines:
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised
in a newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's
country, except for goods contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be
advertised 
in a provincial daily newspaper. Such
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding
documents and prepare and submit their responses. 
In
any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given
to bidders between the date of advertisement in such
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and
the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify
the deadline for such submission.
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be
specified in detail in the bidding documents.
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in
the pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid
and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-
qualified bidders.
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an
amount sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of
breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding
documents shall specify the required form and amount
of such security.
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by
hand. The time for opening of all bids shall be the same
as the deadline for receipt of such bids.
- 11 -
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be
offered an opportunity to be present (either in person or
through their representatives) at the time of bid
opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present
at the bid opening.
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the
bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms or
expressed in the form of pass/fail requirements.
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid
price falls outside any standard contract estimate, or
margin or bracket of average bids established by the
Borrower.
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the
appropriate standards of capability and resources and
whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially
responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer
the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not
be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
submitted.
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan
shall provide that the suppliers and contractors shall
permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts
and records relating to the performance of the contract
and to have said accounts and records audited by
auditors appointed by the Bank.
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises 
in the Borrower's
territory may be permitted to bid or submit a proposal
of goods and works if they can establish that they: (A)
are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent
agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the
number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all
bids or rebidding shall not take place without the
Bank's prior written concurrence.
- 12 -
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall
be published in the national press or provincial press
(as provided under 3(i) above) or official gazette or a
free and open access website and shall identify the
name and offered price of the winning bidder, as well
as the duration and summary scope of the awarded
contract.
(xiv) 
the Borrower shall have in place provisions for bidders
to protest.
(b) 
Shopping
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection under Fixed Budget
(c) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Single Source Selection
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each
contract for goods to be procured on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding; (b) the first contract for goods to be procured under National
Competitive Bidding procedures; (c) each contract for consultants' services
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; (d) all
consultant's contracts procured under single source selection; and (e) each
- 13 -
contract for consultants' services provided by an individual consultant estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject to
Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures,
inclusive of taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
to be financed
(1) 
Goods, Equipment 
199,500,000 
100%
and Consultants
services
(2) 
Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(3) 
Interest Rate Cap 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
or Interest Rate 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Collar Premium 
Agreement
Total 
200,000,000
- 14 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2018.
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March I and September 1, 
2.00%
beginning 
September 
1, 2017
through March 1, 2042
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 16 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 2011.
4. 
"Counties" means collectively Xincheng District, Saihan District, Zhuozi
County, Chahaeryouyi County, Xinghe County, and Shangyi County in Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region, and WanQuan County, Huai'an County and
Gaoxin District in Hebei Province, all in the territory of the Borrower.
5. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person;
and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.
6. 
"Environment Management Framework" or "EMF" means the framework for
environment impact assessment dated August 2011, and duly adopted by the
Borrower and the Ministry of Railways, which sets out the policies and
procedures 
for environment assessment and preparation of environment
mitigation plans in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans; as the same
may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said framework.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" and the acronym "EMP" means, collectively,
(i) the environmental management plan dated August 2011, and duly adopted by
the Borrower and the Ministry of Railways in respect of implementing the
Project and (ii) all such environmental management plans that may be prepared
by the Borrower and the Ministry of Railways, in accordance with the provision
of the Environmental Management Framework; which set out, inter alia, (i) the
actions and measures to be taken for mitigating the adverse environmental
- 18-
impacts resulting from the implementation of the Project and related facilities;
including access roads, construction camps and resettlement sites; (ii) the criteria
and procedures for developing and implementing actions and measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse environmental impacts
resulting from the implementation of activities in locations that are not directly
identified in the EMP; and (iii) administrative and monitoring arrangements to
ensure the implementation of said plans, as the same may be revised from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such plan includes all
schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.
8. 
"FCTIC" means the Foreign Capital and Technology Import Center of the
Ministry of Railways, or any successor thereto.
9. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, covering the period January
I through December 31.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
11. 
"Hebei" means the Borrower's Province of Hebei, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Hohhot" means the city of Hohhot in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.
13. 
"Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region" means the Borrower's Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region, or any successor thereto.
14. 
"MRC" means the Meng-Ji Railway Company Limited, a limited liability
company established by the Ministry of Railways in July 2008, and registered
and operating under its Business License Number 150000000007727 (1-1) 
of
July 25, 2008, or any of its successors.
15. 
"Ministry of Railways" means the Borrower's Ministry of Railways or any
successor thereto, and for the purpose of this Agreement, the reference to the
Ministry of Railways shall include, inter alia, unless the context otherwise
requires, specific reference to the Railway Administration.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 2011.
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan dated November
22, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
- 19 -
18. 
"Provinces" means collectively the Borrower's Province of Hebei and Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region.
19. 
"Railway 
Administration" 
means 
the 
Borrower's 
Hohhot 
Railway
Administration, which is established by the Ministry of Railways under its
administrative control and responsible for the management, operation and
maintenance of the railway system over an assigned territory of the Borrower and
in which the Zhanghu Railway Line will be constructed, under the Project.
20. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and the acronym "RAP" mean, collectively: (i) the
resettlement action plan of January 2012. duly adopted by the Borrower and the
Ministry of Railways in respect of implementing the Project; and (ii) all such
resettlement action plans that may be prepared by the Borrower and the Ministry
of Railways, in accordance with the provision of the Resettlement Policy
Framework; which set out, inter alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing
the acquisition of land required for the Project and related facilities, including
access roads, construction camps and resettlement sites; (ii) actions and measures
for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement
and rehabilitation; 
(iii) the criteria and procedures for developing and
implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the
adverse social impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in
locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; and (iv) reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may
be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
such plan includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.
21. 
"RAP Arrangement" means collectively the arrangements made, through the
commitment letters of various dates, among the Ministry of Railways and the
Counties for implementing the RAP in respect of the Project, as the same may be
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such
arrangements include all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.
22. 
"Resettlement 
Policy Framework" 
or the acronym 
"RPF" 
means the
Resettlement Policy Framework of December 2011, prepared and duly adopted
by the Borrower, acceptable to the Bank; said Framework setting out the policies
and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of
resettlement action plans as may be required for Project activities, as said
Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
said Framework.
- 20 -
23. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental Management
Framework, the Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Policy
Framework, the Resettlement Action Plan, and the RAP Arrangement, and such
term includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments.
24. 
"Zhangjiakou" means the city of Zhangjiakou in Hebei.
