OFFICIAL I
DOCUMENTS.
LOAN NUMBER 8155-BR
Loan Agreement
(SWAp to Strengthen Public Investment Project
Programa de Apoio a Retomada do Desenvolvimento Economico
e Social do Rio Grande do Sul)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Dated Pp7  & a 1 , 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated &i2feni4er i1, 2012, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and STATE OF
RIO GRANDE DO SUL ("Borrower"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II— LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and eighty million
Dollars ($480,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) in respect of Part B of the Project
to finance (through advances and/or reimbursements for retroactive expenditures
only) the Eligible Expenditures incurred by the Borrower under the Program; (b)
in respect of the Part A of the Project to finance (through advances and/or
reimbursements) Eligible Expenditures incurred by the Borrower; and (c) Front-
end Fee, Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Collars. The Borrower's
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken pursuant to this Section is its Secretary of Planning, Management and
Citizen Participation.
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
	
2.07. (a)	
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III — PROJECT
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, under the overall coordination of SEPLAG, shall carry out the
Project with the participation of the Agencies, and with the assistance of the
►I
Additional Implementing Entities, all in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a)
Any of the Additional Implementing Entities shall have failed to perform
their obligations under the corresponding Additional Implementation
Agreement.
(b)
Any of the Agencies shall have failed to perform their obligations under
the corresponding Inter-Agency Agreement.
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any
event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a)
each of the Inter-Agency Agreements has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the relevant Agency and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette;
(b)
the Borrower has established the Special Bidding Committee, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)	
the Borrower has submitted and approved the Project Operational
Manual in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a)	
the Loan has been duly registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank;
and
-3-
1.
(b)	
each of the Inter-Agency Agreements has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower, through SEPLAG, and the relevant Agency,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower, through SEPLAG, and the
relevant Agency, all in accordance with its terms.
5.03. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on November 1, 2013.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Governor.
6.02. The Borrower's Address is:
Palacio Piratini
Praca Marechal Deodoro s/n-Centro
90010-282 Porto Alegre/RS
Brasil
Facsimile: (55-51) 3228-2465
6.03. The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:	
Telex:	
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD	
248423(MCI) or	
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.	
64145(MCI)
-4-
^l
AGREED at 8y 	
-i_ . 6A42 ,— i 	
o e ^jas of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
Authorized Re e ntative
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
By
Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support and improve the planning and
implementation of public investments by strengthening the capacity of the Borrower's
planning agency and selected sector secretariats of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Technical Assistance
Provision of goods, training, consultants' services and non-consulting services to
strengthen the Borrower's capacity to design, implement, monitor and evaluate public
investment, including, inter alia, support for:
Investment and human resource planning, contract and public asset management,
through: (a) carrying out a review of the Borrower's current project planning
process and developing terms of reference to develop the relevant procedures and
manuals; (b) developing a methodology and providing training in project
preparation; (c) providing support for long-term integrated transport and logistics
infrastructure planning; (d) carrying out a diagnostic study of SEDUC's human
resources system; (e) developing and implementing a contract management
information system; (f) developing and implementing a bidding management
system; and (g) setting up a system for managing public assets and disposing of
surplus real estate assets.
2.
Monitoring and impact assessment, through: (a) setting up a multi-channel
system for public service evaluation; and (b) providing training in firm-level
benchmarking methodology.
3.
Environmental and disaster risk management, through: (a) setting up an
environmental licensing and public communications system; (b) setting up an
ecological-economic zoning system; (c) developing a disaster risk management
coordination system; (d) setting up a disaster risk information and monitoring
system; (e) establishing a disaster risk management situation room; (f) carrying
out a feasibility study for industrial symbiosis; and (g) providing training in firm-
level waste reduction techniques.
4.	
Public-private consultation, through: (a) designing an ICT strategy, systems and
implementation support; (b) designing and implementing a multi-channel
participatory budgeting platform and participation portal; and (c) drafting a
proposed new legal framework on participatory procedures and third party
monitoring, supporting its application to organizational processes and providing
training to strengthen third party monitoring.
^.FS
5.	
Other technical assistance, through: (a) providing technical assistance to
economic clusters on, inter alia, marketing strategies; (b) surveying new
entrepreneurs and recently established firms to understand constraints on firm
formation and foster coordination among private sector development
interventions; (c) carrying out a critical point survey road program, and
developing a bridge management system; (d) providing support for the
modernization of the management of the Borrower's pension system; (e)
providing support for the institutional strengthening and institutional
modernization of DAER; (f) providing support to AGDI's management
throughout the first year of the Project; and (g) carrying out the technical audits
referred to in Section II.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Part B: Implementation of the Eligible Expenditure Programs
Support the implementation of the Eligible Expenditure Programs through
investments in public sector management (inter alia, public asset management), transport
(inter alia, highway rehabilitation and repair), education (inter alia, technological
modernization, buildings repair), and private sector development for small and medium-
sized enterprises (inter alia, cluster programs, industrial extension services and
technology parks).
-7-
n^
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.	Implementation Arrangements
A.	
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower, through SEPLAG, shall enter into Inter-Agency agreements (the
Inter-Agency Agreements), satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the Agencies,
setting forth the manner in which each Agency will participate in the
implementation of the Project including, inter alia: (a) a provision stating that the
relevant Agency agrees to collaborate in the implementation of the Project in
accordance with the terms and provisions of the relevant Inter-Agency
Agreement, which shall duly include all the provisions of this Agreement
referring to the implementation of the Project (including, inter alia, compliance
with the Safeguards Documents, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and the
provisions set forth in Section III of this Schedule 2); (b) financial management
provisions detailing the flow of information and/or flow of funds between the
relevant Agency and SEPLAG in order for the Borrower to comply with its
obligations under Section II of this Schedule 2; and (c) in the case of DAER,
special provisions to govern the management of Loan proceeds.
2.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each of
the Inter-Agency Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, terminate,
waive or fail to enforce any provision of any of the Inter-Agency Agreements. In
case of any conflict between the terms of any of the Inter-Agency Agreements
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
3.
Notwithstanding Section I.A. 1 of this Schedule 2, the Borrower shall select, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, additional public and non public entities (such
as universities, unions, city halls, and non-governmental organizations) (the
Additional Implementing Entities), with qualifications and experience (including
the qualification and experience to carry out the procurement activities, selection
of consultants, and application of the Safeguards Documents, required under the
Loan Agreement) satisfactory to the Bank, to support the Borrower in the
carrying out of Part B of the Project. The Borrower, through any of the
Agencies, shall enter into separate agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
each Additional Implementing Entity (the Additional Implementation
Agreements), setting forth the manner in which each Additional Implementing
Entity will participate in the implementation of the Project including, inter alia:
(a) a provision stating that the relevant Additional Implementing Entity agrees to
collaborate in the implementation of the Project in accordance with the terms and
-8-
11
provisions of the relevant Additional Implementation Agreement, which shall
duly include all the provisions of this Agreement referring to the implementation
of the Project (including, inter alia, compliance with the Safeguards Documents,
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and the provisions set forth in Section III of this
Schedule 2); and (b) financial management provisions detailing the flow of
information and/or flow of funds between the relevant Additional Implementing
Entity and the relevant Agency in order for the Borrower to comply with its
obligations under Section II of this Schedule 2.
4. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each of
the Additional Implementation Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend,
assign, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of any of the Additional
Implementation Agreements. In case of any conflict between the terms of any of
the Additional Implementation Agreements and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out,
in accordance with the provisions of a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the
Project Operational Manual), which shall include, inter alia: (a) the Performance
Indicators; (b) the procedures for the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation
of the Project; (c) the detailed criteria for the monitoring of the DLIs; (d)
arrangements, procedures and criteria for the carrying out of Part B of the
Project; (e) the procurement and financial requirements of the Project (including,
inter alia, the requirement to update the Procurement Plan at least annually); (f)
the Procurement Plan; (g) the Safeguards Documents; (h) a Project chart of
accounts and internal controls, reporting procedures, format of the EEP Spending
Report referred in Section I.B.1 of this Schedule 2 and the format of the Interim
Unaudited Financial Reports, referred to in Section II.B.3 of this Schedule 2; and
(i) the terms of reference for the Independent Verification Agency. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to
enforce any provision of the Project Operational Manual without the Bank's prior
written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project
Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail. In addition, in case of any conflict between the Project Operational
Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this
Schedule, said additional instructions shall prevail.
6. The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project,
competent staff in numbers, with qualifications and experience, and working
under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance, as
applicable, with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule.
S.2
i^ ^
7.	
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section I.A.6 of this Schedule 2, the Borrower
shall set up and maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, a special
bidding committee, with members in numbers, with qualifications and
experience, and working under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank (the
Special Bidding Committee), said Special Bidding Committee to support the
Borrower in the procurement of goods, works, consultants' services and non-
consulting services under the Project, as further detailed in Section III of this
Schedule 2.
B.	
SWAP Implementation Arrangements
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank immediately following the Effective
Date, and on or about February 28 and August 31 of each year, starting on the
first such date after the Effective Date, regular reports on EEP spending (the EEP
Spending Reports) prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Operational Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1
of this Schedule.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank on or about February 28 and August 31
of each year starting on the first such date after the Effective Date, a Procurement
report confirming that all procurement activities under Part B of the Project have
been carried out in accordance with the Procurement Plan, and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) have all the Project procurement records and
documentation for each fiscal year of the Borrower audited, in accordance with
appropriate procurement auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said Project procurement records and documentation and
the procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
4.
The EEPs shall comply with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the
Project Operational Manual.
5.
The Borrower and the Bank may jointly review, once every year, the amounts
assigned per budget code to the EEP detailed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
and adjust as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
The budget code numbers indicated in Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall
conform to the Borrower's budget law. The Borrower and the Bank agree that
such budget code numbers may change under the Borrower's budget law,
1;.
provided however, that there is no change in the corresponding Eligible
Expenditure Program described in Schedule 4 of this Agreement and in the
underlying activities to be financed by the Bank under such Eligible Expenditure
Program.
7.	
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of the General Conditions, and if,
at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the financing under the
Project was used for items improperly procured in violation of Section III to this
Schedule, was not used for Eligible Expenditures or, in case of the Eligible
Expenditure Programs of Part B of the Project, was not supported by evidence of
actual spending by the Borrower under said Eligible Expenditure Programs
and/or by evidence of satisfaction of other criteria set forth in this Agreement or
in the Project Operational Manual, the Borrower shall refund any such portion to
the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
C.
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D.
Safeguards
The Borrower shall carry out the Project and shall cause the Agencies and the
Additional Implementing Entities to carry out the Project in accordance with the
Safeguards Documents.
2.	
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.D.1 of this Schedule 2, in the
case of activities under the Project which do not have an environmental
management plan, indigenous peoples plan and/or resettlement action plan (as it
may correspond) in place to the date of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause the Agencies and the Additional Implementing Entities, through the
respective Additional Implementation Agreement or Inter-Agency Agreement,
to: (a) prior to the implementation of any activities under the Project, prepare the
environmental management plan, indigenous peoples plan, and/or or resettlement
plan, as it may correspond, required in the ESMF, the IPPF and/or the RPF, and
follow the procedures set forth in the ESMF, IPPF and/or RPF (as it may
correspond) with respect to the preparation of assessments, submission to the
Bank for approval, consultations and disclosure of the final instruments; and (b)
immediately after the Bank's approval of the pertinent plan, carry out said plan in
accordance with its terms.
3.	
The Borrower shall' ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancies related to any technical assistance provided under the Project, shall
be satisfactory to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall require
-11-
fi
J'
that the advice conveyed through such consultancies and technical assistance be
consistent with the requirements of the Bank Safeguard Policies.
Section II.	
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A.	
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of: (a) the Performance Indicators set forth in the
Project Operational Manual; (b) the applicable DLI; (c) the most recent EEP
Spending Report and Interim Unaudited Financial Reports; (d) the Procurement
Plan; and (e) the Safeguards Documents. Each Project Report shall cover a
period six months preceding the presentation of such Project Report, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year,
starting on the first of any such dates after the Effective Date.
2.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30 each year, starting on June 30, 2013,
select and contract services from consultants, independent from the Borrower
with experience in public investment planning and implementation, pursuant to
the provisions of Section III of this Schedule and in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Independent Verification Agency shall be
responsible for the carrying out of annual technical audits of the Project,
particularly focused on the achievement of the DLI.
3.
Without limitation to any other provision of the General Conditions or of this
Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank shall review, on or about September 30,
2014, or at any other time, if needed during Project implementation, the progress
in the implementation of the Project, including inter alia, the Performance
Indicators and the DLI's.
B.	
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions, for all Project expenditures, including those with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of reports, including
the EEP Spending Reports, which reports shall be subject to: (a) prior review by
the Independent Verification Agency once a year; and (b) review by the Bank
every semester.
2.	
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower
and shall contain, inter alia:
-12-
d .
(a)
(i)	
an opinion as to whether: (A) all Interim Unaudited Financial
Reports and the EEP Spending Reports have observed agreed
disbursements arrangements and are supported by eligible
documentation; and (B) any required documents and other
evidence submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures, accounting and other financial management
monitoring systems, and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals;
(ii)	
in respect of each audit, the amounts disbursed were used for
goods, works, consultants' services and non-consulting services
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(b)
a management letter identifying any internal control weaknesses that
may need to be addressed by the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
3.	
Without limitation on the provisions of Section II.A of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Progress Report,
Interim Unaudited Financial Reports for the Project covering the semester, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section III.	Procurement
A.	
General
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed (through
reimbursement and advances) under Part A of the Project and financed (through
advances and reimbursements for retroactive expenditures only) under Part B of
the Project out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2.	
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
4.
Procurement Agency and Special Bidding Committee for the Procurement
of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The Borrower shall carry out
the procurement for goods, works, and non-consulting services to be awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures through the Special
Bidding Committee. The Borrower shall carry out the procurement for goods,
works and non-consulting services to be awarded on the basis of any method
other than International Competitive Bidding procedures through SARH (through
CECOM).
5.
Procurement Agency and Special Bidding Committee for the Selection and
Contracting of Consultants' Services. The Borrower shall carry out the
selection and contracting of Consultants' services through the Special Bidding
Committee.
B.	
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1.
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2.
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non -consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a)
National Competitive Bidding, (including in respect of works, goods and non-
consulting services, convite, tomada de precos and concorrencia (set forth in the
Guarantor's Law No 8.666 of June 21, 1993), and in respect of of-the-shelf goods
and readily available non-consulting services, pregdo eletronico (as set forth in the
Guarantor's Law No 10.520 of July 17, 2002, and in Decree No 5.450 of May 31,
2005), under 'COMPRASNET', the procurement portal of the Guarantor, Compras-
RS, the State procurement portal, or any other e-procurement system approved by
the Bank, subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding
documents shall be acceptable to the Bank).
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of of-the-shelf goods and readily available non-
consulting services, pregao eletronico set forth in the Guarantor's Law N° 10.520 of
July 17, 2002, and in Decree No 5.450 of May 31, 2005).
(c) Direct Contracting
(d) Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices
which have been found acceptable to the Bank
-14-
C.	
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. No consultants' services shall be
procured under Part B of the Project.
2.	
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and
Cost-based Selection, which may be used for consultants' services under Part A
of the Project. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality Based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least-Cost Selection
(d) Selection Based on the Consultant's Qualifications
(e) Single-Source Selection
(f) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.1 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single- Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in
paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants
D.	
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Procurement Plan.
The Procurement Plan shall set forth: (i) all the contracts for goods, non-
consulting services, and all the expected contracts for the selection of consultants under
Part A of the Project; (ii) all the contracts for goods, works and non-consulting services
expected to be procured under International Competitive Bidding under Part B of the
Project; and (iii) those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's Prior Review. All
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV.	
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A.	
General
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
-15-
♦4
1
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated
to be financed
Category
(expressed in USD)
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants'
55,300,000
100%
services, and Training
under Part A of the
Project
(2) Eligible Expenditure
Programs under Part B
423,500,000
Up to 55%
of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee
Amount payable pursuant to
1,200,000
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or
0
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
480,000,000
For purposes of this Section, the term "Training" means reasonable expenditures
incurred in connection with the carrying out of training, seminars, and workshops
under the Project such as logistics, travel costs (including transportation and
lodging), per-diem of trainers and trainees (as applicable), tuition fees and training
materials (but not including items which can be procured as goods, non-consulting
services or consultants' services).
B.	
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1.	
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
0
-16-
(a)
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after January 1, 2012 (but in no case more than twelve months before the
date of this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures; and
(b)
for payments made under Category (2) unless: (i) the relevant EEP
Spending Report, as referred to in Section. I.B.1 of this Schedule, has
been submitted to, and found satisfactory by, the Bank, in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual and the additional
instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule; and (ii) all
other conditions referred to in the Project Operational Manual and in the
additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule
(including, when applicable, compliance with the Disbursement-Linked
Indicators (for the respective year) as referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement and compliance with the 70% Rule Indicator) have been met
by the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
2.	
If the Bank has:
(a)
not received evidence of full compliance with the 70% Rule Indicator
with respect to the fourth, sixth and eighth disbursement under Category
(2) (as referred to in the Project Operational Manual and additional
instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule), then the
maximum amount of the corresponding withdrawal shall be proportional
to the degree of execution of the Borrower's EEP, as further detailed in
the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule.
The unwithdrawn amount will be added to the next planned disbursement
amount, all as set forth in said additional instructions;
(b)
not received evidence of full compliance with the DLIs referred to in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement in respect to the fourth, sixth, and eighth
disbursements under Category (2) (as referred to in the Project
Operational Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of this Schedule), the Bank shall: (i) deduct a set amount for each
non-compliant DLI from the otherwise disbursable amount, all as set
forth in said additional instructions; (ii) request the Borrower to prepare a
time-bound action plan to achieve such DLI or DLIs in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) when satisfied that the DLI or DLIs
have been complied with and/or such action plan has been implemented,
authorize that the unwithdrawn amount by which the corresponding
disbursement had been reduced to be added to the next planned
disbursement amount, all as set forth in said additional instructions; and
-17-
^ry1.
(c)	
advance amounts not documented will be deemed available to cover the
next period's EEP expenditures and will be deducted from the
calculation of the amount to be disbursed, all as set forth in the additional
instructions referred to in Section 1V.A.1 of this Schedule.
3.
In the event that the Bank has not approved a full withdrawal by the Borrower of
the Loan proceeds under Category (2) (as referred to in the Project Operational
Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section W.A.1 of this
Schedule), the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the corresponding
amount of the loan at the time of the last disbursement (as referred to in the
Project Operational Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of this Schedule).
4.
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017. The Bank may grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor's Minister of Finance has informed the Bank
that it agrees with such an extension.
Section V.	
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall: (i) no later than three months after the Effective Date, designate the
independent auditors as referred to in Section II. B.2 of this Schedule 2 above; and (ii) no
later than six months after the Effective Date, designate the procurement auditors as
referred to in Section I.B.3 of this Schedule 2; all under terms of reference and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance, if applicable,
with the provisions of Section III above.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date by; (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percenta e
15 May 2016
0.05
15 November 2016
0.05
15 May 2017
0.05
15 November 2017
0.05
15 Ma 2018
0.05
15 November 2018
0.05
15 Ma 2019
0.05
15 November 2019
0.05
15 Ma 2020
0.05
15 November 2020
0.05
15 Ma 2021
0.25
15 November 2021
0.25
15 May 2022
0.25
15 November 2022
0.30
15 May 2023
4.00
15 November 2023
4.00
15 Ma 2024
4.00
15 November 2024
4.00
15 Ma 2025
4.00
15 November 2025
4.00
15 Ma 2026
4.00
15 November 2026
4.00
15 May 2027
4.00
15 November 2027
4.00
15 Ma 2028
4.00
15 November 2028
4.00
15 May 2029
4.00
-19-
15 November 2029
4.00
15 Ma 2030
4.00
15 November 2030
4.00
15 Ma 2031
3.00
15 November 2031
1.50
15 Ma 2032
1.50
15 November 2032
1.50
15 May 2033
1.50
15 November 2033
1.50
15 May 2034
1.50
15 November 2034
1.50
15 May 2035
1.50
15 November 2035
1.50
15 Ma 2036
1.50
15 November 2036
1.50
15 May 2037
1.50
15 November 2037
1.50
15 Ma 2038
1.50
15 November 2038
1.50
15 Ma 2039
1.50
15 November 2039
1.50
15 May 2040
1.50
15 November 2040
1.50
15 May 2041
1.50
15 November 2041
1.45
TOTAL
100.00
2.	
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b)
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this'
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such` ,
-20-
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3.
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar weeks prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-21-
SCHEDULE4
Eligible Expenditure Programs
Borrower's
Amount
Amount to
Amount to
Amount to
Eligible
Budget Item
Budget Line
Expenditur
to be
be spent by
be spent by
be spent by
Expenditur
Numbers
e
spent by
the
the
the
e
(as set forth in
Type
the
Borrower
Borrower
Borrower
Program
the
Borrower
in FY 2014
in FY 2015
in FY 2016
Borrower's
in FY
in million
in million
in million
Budget Law)
2013
US$
US$
US$
in million
US$
Transport
Highway
3252
Goods/
0
83.8
142.0
128.6
Rehabilitatio
works/ non
n and Repair
consulting
services/
and
operating
costs
Education
Refurbishme
6344
Goods/
110.0
69.7
69.2
44.9
nt of
works/ non
Facilities
consulting
services/
and
operating
costs
Education
Technologic
1909
Goods/
24.0
20.5
19.7
11.0
al
works/ non
Modernizati
consulting
on
services/
and
operating
costs
Education
Participatory
5791
Goods/
3.6
3.6
3.6
0.2
Evaluation
works/ non
System
consulting
services/
and
operating
costs
Private
Cluster
3342/3335
Goods/
2.7
2.9
2.6
2.4
Sector
Governance
works/ non
Developme
and
consulting
nt
I	
Monitoring
services/
-22-
and
operating
costs
Private
Industrial
3334
Goods/
3.8
7.0
7.0
6.8
Sector
Extension
works/ non
Developme
Services
consulting
nt
services/
and
operating
costs
Private
Science
6704
Goods/
19.0
18.4
18.6
11.3
Sector
Parks and
works/ non
Developme
Innovation
consulting
nt
Networks
services/
and
operating
costs
Public
Public asset
8089
Goods/
3.0
2.5
2.1
2.9
Sector
management
works/ non
Manageme
consulting
nt
services/
and
operating
costs
- 23 -
1
SCHEDULE 5
Disbursement-Linked Indicators
Public Sector Management — Fiscal Performance
1. The Primary Balance (in millions of R$) shall have reached the following values from a
baseline of 1,623 as of end of calendar year 2011: by end calendar year 2012: 1,483; by end
calendar year 2013: 1,573; by end calendar year 2014: PAF Target for 2014; and by end
calendar year 2015: PAF Target for 2015.
2. The Borrower's investment expenditures (in millions of R$) shall have reached the following
values from a baseline of 882, as of the end of calendar year of 2011: by end calendar 2012:
944; by end calendar year 2013: 1,010; by end calendar year 2014: 1,100; and by end calendar
year 2015: 1,200.
3. The Borrower's revenue from ICMS (in millions of R$) shall have reached the following values
from a baseline of 19,503, as of the end of calendar year 2011: by end calendar year 2012:
20,500; by end calendar year 2013: 21,500; by end calendar year 2014: 22,500; and by end
calendar year 2015: 23,500.
Transport — Highway Rehabilitation and Repair
4. The cumulative percentage of the state highway network under CREMA Contracts shall have
reached the following percentages (from a baseline value of 0 by end FY 2012): 0% by end FY
2013, 5% by end FY 2014, 15% by end FY 2015, and 20% by end FY 2016.
Education — Facilities Refurbishment
5. The number of school construction and refurbishment projects completed
ep r year shall have
reached the following (from a baseline value of 75 by end FY 2012): FY 2013: 40; FY 2014:
60; FY 2015: 100; FY 2016: 40.
Private Sector Development — Cluster Governance, Industrial Outreach Services, Science &
Technology Parks and Innovation Networks
6. The number of annual agreements signed or renewed between AGDI and cluster organizations
per year shall have reached the following (from a baseline value of 0 by end FY 2012): FY
2013: 10; FY 2014: 20; FY 2015: 20; FY 2016: 20.
7. The number of annual agreements signed or renewed between AGDI and with extension centers
per year shall have reached the following (from a baseline value of 0 by end FY 2012): FY
2013: 10; FY 2014: 20; FY 2015: 20; FY 2016: 20.
8.
The number of new Triple Helix Alliances implemented and/or renewed per year shall have
reached the following (from a baseline value of 0 by end FY 2012): FY 2013: 5; FY 2014: 5;
FY 2015: 5; FY 2016: 5.
-24-
l^
If
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
"Additional Implementation Agreements" means any of the agreements referred
in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.
"Additional Implementing Entity" means any of the public or private entities
(such as universities, unions, municipalities, and non-governmental
organizations) selected in a manner acceptable to the Bank that will support the
Borrower in the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
3.
"AGDI" means Agencia Gaucha de Desenvolvimento e Promocdo de
Investimentos, the Borrower's agency for development and investment
promotion.
4.	
"Agency" means either IPERGS, SEPLAG, SARH, SEMA, DAER, SEINFRA,
SEDUC, AGDI and SCIT, and "Agencies" means collectively 1PERGS,
SEPLAG, SARH, SEMA, DAER, SEINFRA, SEDUC, AGDI, and SCIT.
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
6.
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Association's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01,
4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published
under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
7.
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
8.
"CECOM" means Central de Compras, the Borrower's central procurement
agency.
9.
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
10.	
"CREMA Contracts" means contratos de reabilitacdo e manutencao
(rehabilitation and repair contracts), any multi-year contract entered into by the
Borrower through DAER with a private sector contractor, which contract
comprises all phases of road rehabilitation and repair work as a single package,
from design and programming of the works, through the execution of such
-25-
i
t
works, with respect to an identified portion of the corresponding Borrower road
network.
11.
"DAER" means Departamento Autonomo de Estradas de Rodagem, the
Borrower's autonomous department of highways.
12.
"Disbursement-Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means each and any of the indicators
specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and "DLIs" means all such indicators.
13.
"EEP" or "Eligible Expenditure Programs" means a set of defined expenditures
(excluding, specifically, consultants' services) for goods, works, non-consulting
services and operating costs incurred by the Borrower for Part B of the Project
under the Borrower's Program Sector budget lines as specified in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, a portion of which will be financed by the Loan.
14.
"EEP Spending Reports" means the reports referred in Section I.B.1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
15.
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Borrower's environmental and social management framework for the Project
dated January 2012 and published on the Borrower's website
(www.seplag.rs. o
g v.br) on January 21, 2012, as said framework may be
amended, from time to time, with the Bank's prior written approval.
16.
"FY" or "Fiscal Year" means the Bank's fiscal year, i.e. the period going from
July 1 s` each year to June 30th of the following year.
17.
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
18.
"ICMS" means imposto sobre operacoes relativas a circulacao de mercadorias e
prestacao de servicos de transporte interestadual e intermunicipal e de
comunicacdo, the Borrower's tax on circulation of goods and services.
19.
"ICT" means information, communications and technology.
20.
"Independent Verification Agency" means the entity referred to in Section II.A.2
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21.	
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework for the Project, dated January 2012 and published on the Borrower's
website (www.seplag.rs off) on January 26, 2012, setting forth, inter alia,
provisions to ensure, inter alia, that indigenous peoples benefit from the Project
in a culturally appropriate manner, including the basis and procedures to prepare
specific indigenous peoples' plans or related instruments during Project
-26-
d framework may be amended, from time to time, with the
,proval.
22.
"Inter-Agency Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23.
"Interim Unaudited Financial Report" or "IFR" means the report mentioned in
Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24.
"IPERGS" means Instituto de Previdencia do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul, the
Borrower's pension institute.
25.
"PAF" means the fiscal adjustment program ("Programa de Ajuste Fiscal")
periodically agreed between the Guarantor and the Borrower under the
framework of the Guarantor's Law No. 9496, dated September 11, 1997, the
Guarantor's Senate Resolution No. 64/98, and agreement No. 014/98
STN/COAFI dated April 15, 1998.
26.
"PAF Target for 2014" means the target primary balance of the Borrower for
calendar year 2014, as set forth in the latest applicable PAF.
27.
"PAF Target for 2015" means the target primary balance of the Borrower for
calendar year 2015, as set forth in the latest applicable PAF.
28.
"Performance Indicators" means the Project monitoring and evaluation indicators
set forth in the Project Operational Manual.
29.
"Primary Balance" means the current revenues minus the non-financial
expenditures of the Borrower.
30.
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
31.
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 13, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
32.
"Program/ Sector" means any of the eight programs of the Borrower listed in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
33.
"Project Operational Manual" means the manual referred in Section I.A.5 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time
with the Bank's prior written approval.
-27-
l/
YI©' .
34.
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework
for the Project dated January 2012 and published on the Borrower's website
(www.seplag.rs.gov.br) on January 26, 2012, setting forth, inter alia, the
principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation and implementation,
and the process for preparing and approving resettlement plans under the Project,
as said framework may be amended, from time to time, with the Bank's prior
written approval.
35.
"R$" means Reais, the Borrower's currency.
36.
"Safeguards Documents" means any of the following documents: the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, the Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and any other
environmental management plan, resettlement action plan, and indigenous
peoples plan developed by the Borrower during Project implementation
following the procedures set forth in the ESMF, the IPPF and/or the RPF, as any
of said documents may be amended, from time to time, with the Bank's prior
written approval.
37.
"SARH" means Secretaria da Administracao e dos Recursos Humanos, the
Borrower's state secretariat for administration and human resources.
38.
"SCIT" means Secretaria de Ciencia, Inovacao e Desenvolvimento Tecnologico,
the Borrower's state secretariat of science, innovation and technological
development.
39.
"SEDUC" means Secretaria da Educacao, the Borrower's state secretariat of
education.
40.
"SEFAZ" means Secretaria da Fazenda, the Borrower's state secretariat of
finance.
41.
"SEINFRA" means Secretaria da Infraestrutura e Logistica, the Borrower's state
secretariat of infrastructure.
42.
"SEMA" means Secretaria do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower's state secretariat of
environment.
43.
"SEPLAG" means Secretaria do Planejamento, Gestdo e Participacao Cidada,
the Borrower's state secretariat of planning and administration.
44.	
"Special Bidding Committee" means the committee, with members in numbers,
with qualifications and experience, and working under terms of reference,
-28-
ru
satisfactory to the Bank, referred in Section I.A.7 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
45.
"Triple Helix Alliances" means alliances between a municipality, a university
and a business.
46.
"70% Rule Indicator" means a condition to be met by the Borrower for certain
Loan disbursements to take place, namely that for the aggregate amount of all
EEPs there has been spent, in the previous July 1 to June 30 period, 70% of the
budgeted EEPs funds (specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement) for said period
under Part B of the Project.
-29-
rj
'T1^
