DOCUMWFS <
LOAN NUMBER 8030-MK
Loan Agreement
(Southeast Europe and Caucasus Catastrophe Risk Insurance
Facility Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(the Borrower)
And
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 23,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8030-MK
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
March 
23, 
2012, 
between 
the 
Borrower 
and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter of sector development policy
dated October 10, 2011, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies (the Program) designed to create the enabling regulatory and legal
framework for the operations of the Southeast Europe and Caucasus Catastrophe Risk
Insurance Facility (as defined hereafter), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program;
(B) 
The Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of
the project (the Project) described in Schedule I to this Agreement, has requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
Whereas the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist in financing Partl the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
-2-
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the
Program. To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the ISA
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that Part 1 of the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following:
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of thirty (30) days after notice of
the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is Its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
1000 Skopje
Facsimile:
389 2 3106779
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Skopje, as of the day and year first above written.
BORROWER
By
Autho i ed Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to help increase access of homeowners, farmers,
the enterprise sector and government agencies in the territory of the Borrower to financial
protection from losses caused by climate change and geological hazards.
The Project consists of the following:
Part 1. South East Europe and Caucasus Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility
Securing the Borrower's Membership in Europa Re
Provision of financing for the payment of the Borrower's membership
participation in Europa Re to enable the latter to provide reinsurance support and required
market infrastructure for innovative insurance products that will cover the costs of
replacing physical assets (such as homes, business equipment and inventory, green
houses) and livelihoods lost to natural disasters as well as government social obligations,
if any, arising in the aftermath of such disasters.
Part 2. Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance in support of developing insurance market
infrastructure, including appropriate regulatory, legislative and policy framework and
design of the technical tools needed to provide catastrophe risk insurance and parametric
indexed weather risk products, and training of insurance loss adjusters.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
For the purposes of facilitating successful project implementation, the Borrower
undertakes to carry out the following actions:
1. 
Not later than by May 31, 2011, establish a program working group in the ISA
and appoint its Head.
2. 
Not later than thirty (30) days after the effectiveness of this Agreement, appoint
the Borrower's representative to Europa Re Advisory Board and annual
shareholders' meetings.
3. 
Carry out all necessary policy and regulatory actions, as set forth in the Program
that would result in the increased level of catastrophe insurance penetration
among the Borrower's population and SMEs and that would create conducive
regulatory environment for Europa Re operations in the Borrower's insurance
market.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, or shall cause to be monitored and
evaluated, the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than two (2)
months after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
-7-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank, or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank, not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports relating to the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, upon the Bank's request, have, the Financial Statements
relating to the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
indicated in the Bank's request. The audited Financial Statements for such period shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the date of the Bank's request.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-8-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated , 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Membership 
4,987,500 
100%
Contribution
(2) Front-end Fee 
12,500 
Amount payable pursuant
to 
Section 2.03 
of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; nor
(b) 
for any payments in respect of the Borrower's Membership Contribution
under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph A of this Section,
unless the Borrower has signed a Shareholders' Agreement and received
a Subscription Certificate.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
-9-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date[, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2017
through May 15, 2032 
3.13%
On November 15, 2032 
2.97%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
- 10 -
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 11 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Europa Reinsurance Facility Limited" or "Europa Re" means a catastrophe
reinsurance facility established as a corporation under the laws of Swiss
Federation for the purpose of providing catastrophe risk reinsurance to the
countries which are members of such facility.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
5. 
"ISA" means the Borrower's Insurance Supervision Agency established by the
Insurance Supervision Law published in the "Official Gazette of the Republic of
Macedonia" No. 27/02, 84/02, 98/02, 33/04, 88/05, 79/07, 8/08, 88/08, 56/09 and
67/10.
6. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
7. 
"Membership Contribution" means a fee payable by the Borrower to secure its
membership in Europa Re.
8. 
"Program" means the program designed to strengthen the national capacity of the
Borrower to respond financially to natural disasters and set forth or referred to in
the letter dated October 10, 2011, from the Borrower to the Bank.
9. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Europa Re.
10. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Europa Re.
11. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Shareholders' Agreement
and the Articles of Incorporation of Europa Re.
12. 
"Shareholders' 
Agreement" means the agreement executed among the
shareholders of Europa Re that lays out their respective rights and responsibilities
- 12 -
as shareholders of Europa Re and referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Part B of
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"Subscription Certificate" means a letter sent to the Borrower by Europa Re
stating the number of shares to be owned by the Borrower upon disbursement of
its Membership Contribution.
Section II. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:
1 .
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
as follows:
"... (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:
"... (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank's sanctions policies and
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower,
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
- 13 -
Footnotes:
"13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the
Bank's sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
financing made by such financier."
"14. 
Member Country includes officials and employees of the national
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines."
"15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be
posted on the Bank's website and otherwise be made known to staff and other
stakeholders."
