OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8185-BR
Loan Agreement
(Tocantins Integrated Sustainable Regional Development Project)
(Projeto de DesenvolvimE nto Regional Integrado e Sustentdvel no Estado do
Tocantins-PDRIS)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF TOCANTINS
Dated cDae,.-kijt c,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
c ielcel 
.1 
0.oJ , 
2012, 
between 
the
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). and the STATE OF TOCANTINS ("Borrower"). The Borrower and the Bank
hreby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral pa t of :his Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the me anin gs ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Ag-eement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2 01. 
The Bank agrees to lenc to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars ($
300,000,000), as such imount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), tc assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-erd Fee payable :y the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a C onversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest rayable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amourt shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment ccntinues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Co iditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount 
f the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower rt ay a: any time, in each case with the prior non-objection
of the Guaranto-, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guaiantor's Ministiy of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (ii a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currc ncy; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding fron a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outs-anding fro n a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spreac to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spreac to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any port on cf the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion reqaested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly follcwing the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the 3orrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 1.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allccated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
A RTICLE 1H -
PROJECT
_.01. 
The Borrower declare; its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, t trough SEPLAN, shall carry out the Project with the
assistance of: (a) SETINFRA for Part 1 of the Project; (b) SEAGRO, SEMADES
-2-
460W
and Ruraltins for Part 2 2 of the Project; (c) SEMADES and Naturatins for Part
2.3. of the Project; and (d) S'DUC for Part 2.4 of the Project, all in accordance
with the pro- isions of A -ticle V of the General Conditions.
3.)2. 
Without limitation upor the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE _Y -- REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events cf Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
Any Participatng Entity shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations und -r each Cooperation Agreement to an extent that, in the
opinion of the Bank would materially and adversely affect the carrying
out of the Project.
(b) 
A si.uation shall have arisen, and has continued for a period of 120 days
after notice of :he event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower,
which may material[y and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank,
the ability of any Participating Entity to carry out its obligations under
the respective C ooperation Agreement.
(c) 
Notwithstandinr the rights contained in Section 7.02 of the General
Conditions, it is understood that if any of the events specified in
paragraphs (a) and (:) of this Section shall have occurred, the Bank may,
by notice to th, Borrower, suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures
in respect of the concerned Participating Entity.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following:
Any of the events sptcified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is ccntinuing for a period of 120 days after notice of the
event has bcen given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been duly registered with th- Guarantor's Central Bank.
-3-
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninoty (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later then the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire January 24 2014.
ARTICLE VI-- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Reprtsentative 
is its Secretary of Planning and Public
Management Moderniza:ion.
6,02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria do Planejamento e da Modemizagio da Gestdo Pfiblica
Praga dos Girass6is, s/n CEP 77001-002
Palmas
Tocantins
Brazil
Facsimile: 
(55-63) 3212 4403
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de A;suntos Intemacionais do
Minist6rio dc Planejamento, Orgamento e Gestdo
Esplanada dos Minist6rics - Bloco K - 50 andar
70040-906 B -asilia, DF
Brazil
Facsimile: 
(55-61) 2(20-5006
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Strect, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2043:
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248L23(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
i9wd,'qAu, c(36jas of
the- day and year first above writ en.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF TOCANTIN
By
Authorized Repre ntative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Prcject is to foster improved effectiveness of road transport
and enhanced efficiency of sclected public services, in support of the Borrower's
integrated and territorially balan.ed development agenda.
The Project consists of tie following parts:
Part 1 - Improving effectiveneis of rural transport
Provision of support to improve accessibility of the Borrower's remote
populations and, at the same tirie, foster regional economic integration and support the
Borrower's competitiveness and social inclusion agendas, through the carrying out of the
following activities:
1.1. 
Improving transport con ditio-is on the municipal roads
Improvement of accessibility of rural populations to employment opportunities,
services and resources and markets by the elimination of about 2,600 critical spots on
selected municipal feeder roads tirough, inter alia: the design, construction and
supervision of concrete hydraulic structures (bridges and culverts) of municipal feeder
roads, all to ensure ye-ar round traffic (the Municipal Road Subprojects).
1.2. 
Rehabilitating the Bo:Tower's paved network through performance based
contracts
Improvement of transpc rt conditions on the Borrower's paved roads through the
carrying out of: (a) a set of performance based CREMA Contracts on about 1,500
kilometres of identified Borrower-managed paved roads (the State Road Rehabilitation
Subprojects I); and (b) if applizabl performance-based CREMA Contracts in selected
Borrower-managed paved roads in E.ccordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank (the
Slate Road Rehabilitation Subprojects II).
1.3. 
Improving road and trar sport safety conditions on Borrower's unpaved roads
Improvement of connectivity and transport safety conditions on the Borrower's
unpaved roads, thrcugh, inter alia: (i) the elimination of about 20 critical spots on
unpaved feeder roads through the design, replacement and supervision of concrete
hydraulic structures of selected deficient infrastructures; and (ii) design, surfacing and
supervision of apprcximately 5) km of unpaved road sections to close the network and
facilitate access to the national t-unk network (the State Road Improvement Subprojects).
-6-
1 A. 
Transport management capacity institutional strengthening
Improvemeni of the Borrower's capacity in transport planning and management,
logistics and road sa"ety (all uider :erms of reference acceptable to the Bank) through
the provision of goods, consult ints' services, non-consulting services and training for
institutional strengthening of SEINFRA in the following areas: (i) transportation planning
and logistics management; (i) 
road safety; and (iii) social and environmental
mranagement.
Part 2 - Enhanced efficiency ol public services
Provision of support for institutional strengthening, through the provision of
goods, works, training, non-cons ilting and consultants' services, through the carrying out
of the following activities:
2.1. 
Modernization of the Borrower's administration
Provision of support to :he SEPLAN to improve public services efficiency (all
under terms of refererice acceptable to the Bank) through, inter alia: (i) the introduction
of a results-based management methodology; (ii) a de-concentration of Borrower's
administrative services to its regions, for purposes of strengthening the municipalities'
management 
capacifies; (iii) 
the improvement of environmentally 
and socially
sustainable land use olanning prcesses and natural resource management policies; and
(iv) the improvemen. of service del very to users as well as work conditions for the
Borrower's civil servants by carying out rehabilitation and/or construction activities of
puolic premises and/or facilitios in accordance with the criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual.
2.:. 
Fostered local and regioral development
Provision of support, tluougl the carrying out of pilot activities aimed towards
the promotion of rura.l businesse3 and the creation of opportunities to attract sustainable
investments in selected Borrowei's regions (all under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank), which activities consist of, nter alia: (i) to SEAGRO and Ruraltins for the
promotion of a more efficient agi ibusiness sector with social and gender inclusiveness, as
well as environmenial and economic sustainability in the Borrower's territory, by
fostering increased productivity ind better access to markets for subsistence production
and small and medium producer:;, and attracting sustainable investments while fostering
ervironment sustaina)ility; (ii) to SEVIADES for the preparation of a renewable energy
po icy for the Borrower; and (iii) to SEPLAN for the development of ecotourism in the
Borrower's territory.
-7-
2.3. 
Improvement of environmental management
Provision of support tc SEMADES and Naturatins to improve environmental
management (all uncer terms of reference acceptable to the Bank) through, inter alia: (i)
the improvement of the Borrower's environmental licensing system and its monitoring
and enforcement activities (excl iding any enforcement police-type activity), and its water
rights registration system; (ii) (A) tie carrying out of studies on the evaluation of the
need for new public policies for the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources
and development of biodiversi-y, and if applicable as determined by the results of said
studies, the development of regulatory mechanisms and technical instruments for the
conservation and sustainable ue of natural resources and development of biodiversity;
and (B) the carrying out of pilct actvities in support of areas mentioned in (A) herein to
be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) (A) the carrying
cut of studies on the evaluation of the need for new public policies in water management,
and if applicable a3 determinod by the results of said studies, the development of
regulatory mechanisms and technical instruments for a more sustainable use of water; and
(B1) the carrying out of pilot activities in support of the area mentioned in (A) herein to be
selected in accordance with critcria acceptable to the Bank.
24. 
Improvemer t of quality, relevance and returns in the education system
Provision of support to SEDUC to improve quality in the Borrower's education
svstem in a pilot set of selected Borrower's municipalities with high vulnerability (all
under terms of reference accep:able to the Bank), through, inter alia: (i) supporting the
selected municipalities in providing quality early child development; (ii) increasing
q jality of education through dentifying strengths and weaknesses in the quality of
teaching and providing targeted tra.ning to ameliorate weaknesses; and (iii) improving
the relevance and re.urns to schoolirg through supplementary courses in upper secondary
schools and improve d educatior. materials.
Part 3 - Project Management
Provision of support 
foi 
Project management in connection 
with the
implementation and supervisior of the Project.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementatioa Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution and until completion of the
Project, maintain a unit witHin SEPLAN to be responsible for the coordination
and monitoring of the Project (the "PMU"), such unit to have a structure and
functions satisfactory to the Bank, as defined in the Operation Manual, as well as
staff in adequate numbc rs and with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank.
B. 
Cooperatioin Agreemer t
1 .
Prior to the carrying oul of any Project activity which requires the assistance of
any given Farticipating Enlity, the Borrower shall enter into a cooperation
agreement with said Participating Entity (the "Cooperation Agreement"), under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the
Participating Entity's obligat:on to: (a) assist the Borrower, through SEPLAN, in
the carrying out of sail Project activity or activities with due diligence and
efficiency; and (b) comply with the pertinent obligations under this Agreement,
including wilh the provi;ions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, all as applicable
to the corresponding Project activity.
2, 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Cooperation Agreemen 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agr-e, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Cooperation Agreement or any of its
provisions.
C. 
Operational Manual
1I 
Without limitation to th- provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project, and/or shall cause the Project to be
carried out, in accordance with the provisions of a manual, satisfactory to the
Bank (the "Operational Manual"), which shall detail the procedures and
guidelines for the execulion, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including,
inter alia:
-9-
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project (includi ig the technical, procurement, disbursement, financial
management, so -ial and environmental requirements thereof);
(b) 
the eligibility criteria for the selection of Municipal Road Subprojects the
State Road Improv ment Subprojects and State Road Rehabilitation
Subprojects II;
(c) 
the list of State Road Rehabilitation Subprojects I;
(d) 
the criteria for the selection of the public premises and/or facilities
mentioned in Pait 2.1 (iv) of the Project;
(e) 
the indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation;
(f) 
the ffnctions, re 3ponsibilities, structure and key staff composition of the
PMU; and
(g) 
the Environmen:al and Social Impact Assessment, the Environmental
and Social Management Framework (including the Environmental
Management 
P an), the Resettlement Policy Framework and the
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework.
2. 
The Operational Manua may be amended by the Borrower from time to time
with the prior approval of the Bank. In case of any conflict or inconsistency
between the terms of th s Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the
terms of this Agreement 3hall prevail.
D, 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Municipal Road Subprojectg
Prior to the approval by the Bank of any given Municipal Road Subproject, the
Borrower, through SEPL AN, shall furnish to the Bank, an application containing
the following information arid documentation with respect to such Municipal
Road Subproject:
(a) 
a copy of the relevant municipality's development agenda, including a
descr .ption of tho participatory mechanisms followed for the preparation
of such agenda (such as the minutes of discussions on the development
agenca by the relevant municipality, the minutes of discussions on the
Borrcwer's Regi)nal Development Agenda);
- 10 -
(b) 
the priority list of t ie road sections to be included in such Municipal
Road Subproject, including the minutes of the public discussions held for
its preparation, !igned by the participants or their representatives;
(c) 
an agreement )etw.en the Borrower and the relevant municipality
detailing the 
commitments of each 
party 
to strengthen 
such
municipality's participatory planning and management capacity, as well
as providing for the financing and carrying out by the Borrower of such
Municipal Road Subproject, and the collaboration to be provided by such
municipality in :onn.ction thereto;
(d) 
if applicable, a copy of a cooperation agreement amongst the
municipalities that share a common border so as to create an inter-
municipal conEortium for purposes of undertaking maintenance of
municipal roads;
(e) 
the bidding documents for the pertinent Municipal Road Subproject;
(f) 
such other infor nation as the Bank shall reasonably request.
F. 
Environmental and Soial Provisions
The Borrower shall, through SEPLAN, and with the assistance of the pertinent
Participating Entity, implement and/or cause to be implemented Parts I (other
than Parts 1.2 and 1.4) and : of the Project in accordance with the provisions of
the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework aad the Resettlement Policy Framework (including the
Process Framework) and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through SEPLAN and SEINFRA, implement the State Road
Rehabilitaticn Subproje,.ts I listed in the Operational Manual in accordance with
the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan, and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
Upon the approval of any given Municipal Road Subproject, State Road
Improvement Subproje .t, or State Road Rehabilitation Subproject I (as provided
in Section F.7 of this S-hedile), State Road Rehabilitation Subproject II or any
works to be carried out under Part 2.1 (iv) of the Project, and prior to the carrying
out of any of said Sub )rojects or works, the Borrower, through SEPLAN and
SEINFRA, 
shall: 
(a) carry out and/or cause to be carried out an
environmental/social as;essnient of the pertinent works, and based on the results
of said asscssment as determined by the Bank, approve and/or cause to be
approved 
an 
environmental/social 
management 
plan (including 
a pest
management plan, if applicable) or similar environmental or social safeguards
instrument, acceptable t) the Bank, for each Subprojects or works (which plan or
- 11-
similar enviionmental/s)cial safeguards instrument shall be based on the results
of the environmentalhocial assessment mentioned herein, and the Bank's
comments on the results of said assessment, if any), all in accordance with the
provisions of the Enviionmental and Social Management Framework; and (b)
immediately after saicd approval: (i) obtain the environmental license or
authorization to carry out the pertinent works under the relevant type of
Subproject; and (ii) implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may
be) the corresponding tnvironmental/social management plan (including a pest
management plan, if appliable) or similar environmental/social safeguards
instrument, in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of this Agreement in respect of any
given Municipal Road Sibproject, State Road Improvement Subproject or State
Road Rehabiltation Subproject I (as provided in Section F.7 of this Schedule) or
State Road Rehabilitation Subproject II in which works are involved, or any works
to be carried out under Part 2.1 (iv) of the Project, and if as a result of the
definition of the precise sitting alignments it is determined by the Borrower that
Resettlement will be involved, the Borrower, through SEPLAN and SEINFRA,
shall: (a) priot to the carrying out of any said Subprojects or works, prepare and/or
cause to be pre,pared and furnish to the Bank, a resettlement plan, acceptable to the
Bank (which plan shal 
be consistent with the pertinent provisions of the
Resettlement Policy Fran ework); and (b) thereafter, implement and/or cause to be
implemented, said resettl.ment plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to 1he Bank.
5. 
With respect to the carrying out of any given Municipal Road Subproject, State
Road Improvement Subproject or State Road Rehabilitation Subproject I (as
provided in Section F.7 of this Schedule), State Road Rehabilitation Subproject
II, or any works to be carried out under Part 2.1 (iv) of the Project, or any pilot
activity under Part 
2.3 (ii) (B) and/or (iii) (B) of the Project and when so
determined by the Borrower as set forth in the IPPF and the Environmental and
Social Manaoement Fra-nework, the Borrower, through SEPLAN and SEINFRA,
shall: (a) prior to the c.rrying out of any of said type of Subprojects, works or
pilot activities, prepare and/or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, an
Indigenous Peoples' Plan, acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall be consistent
with the pertinent prcvisicns of the IPPF); and (b) thereafter, adopt and
implement (and/or cause to be adopted and implemented) said Indigenous
Peoples' Plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
6. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall ensure, and/or cause the Participating
Entities to ensure, that :he terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of
any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof
and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements
- 12 -
of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to the advice conveyed
through such technical asistance.
7. 
Without limitation to tle provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of the Project, and if
during Project implementation the Borrower decides to replace one or more of
the State Road Rehabilitition Subprojects I listed in the Operational Manual , the
Borrower, through SEPIAN and SEINFRA, shall: (a) furnish to the Bank, for its
approval, the new State Road Rehabilitation Subprojects I; and (b) immediately
after the approval of said new State Road Rehabilitation Subprojects I, carry out
said new State Road Reh abili tation Subprojects I in accordance with the pertinent
provisions in this Agreenent.
8, 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of this Agreement and when so
determined by the Bank, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any
pilot activity under Part 2.3 (ii) (B) and/or (iii) (B) of the Project that may cause
an adverse impact on tl.e livelihoods of the affected persons as a result of an
involuntary restriction o access to natural resources in legally designated parks
and protected areas (inc uding reserves) under said Parts of the Project, prepare
and furnish to the Bank an action plan consistent with the provisions of the
Process Framrework; and (b) immediately thereafter, implement each action plan
in accordance with its terms and those of the PF, and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Projoct Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators set
forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five
(45) days after the end of the )eriod covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrowcr, through SEP LAN, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial maragement s3 stem in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limiation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through SEPLAN, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five
(45) days aftcr the end o:'each quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
- 13 -
3 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the przvisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower, commen ing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was
made under the Project. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to tl,e Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section M. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 
Works, Goods, and Non-Consulting Services. All works, goods and non-
consulting services reqt ired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be pi ocured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of tho Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the r roceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
Definitions. 
The capitaliZed terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement mett.ods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, ar Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
13. 
Particular Nlethods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-Consulting
Services
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, ,Aorks, goods anl non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on tfe basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-Consulting
Services. The followi ig table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competilive 3idding, which may be used for works, goods and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under whicl such mett ods may be used.
- 14 -
Procurement Method
(a) Nationa Competitive Bidding, including in respect of goods, works and non-
consulting service.;, concorrencia (set forth in the Guarantor's Law no.
8.666 of June 2 1, 1993), including, in respect of goods and non-
consultanting servic-es, pregdo eletr6nico (set forth in the Guarantor's Law
No. 10520 of July 17, 2002), under 'COMPRASNET', the procurement
portal of the Guarantor, or any other e-procurement system approved by the
Bank), subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the
bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Shoppiig.
(c) Direct contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of .rocuarement of Consultants' Services
1 
Quality- and Cost-bastd Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cos:-bas.d Selection.
2 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procuremeat Method
(a) Quality Based Selection
(b) Selection under a FiKed Budget
(c) Least Cc st Selectior
(d) Selection based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single-source Selec1ion
(f) Procedures set forth n Paragraphs 5.1 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Sole Source Proced ires for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth
in jaragaph 5.6 of :he Consultant Guidelines
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan s[ all se-t forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 15 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrowcr may wit[ draw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time t time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pirsuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The followin,o table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the prcceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to -ach Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works,
consultants' services and
non-consulting services
for:
(a) Parts 1.1 and 1.2. of 
233,000,000 
100%
the Project; and
(b) Part 1.z- of the Project 
7,000,000 
80%
- 16-
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Category 
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(2) (a) Gocds, consultants'
service: and non-
consulting services and
Training for Parts 2.1 (i)
through (iii), 2.2, 2.3 and
2.4 of thee Project
(b) Works, consultani s'
servicons and non-
consul[ting servicc s,5,0010
under Part 2.1 (iv) of 
(exp 
50ssed inu 
%
the Project
(3) Goods, consultants'
services, and non-
consulting services7, 
100%
Training and Opei-ating 
8, 000,000 
10
Costs fDr Part 3 of the
Project
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
(4) FotcdFe7000 
of this Agreement in
rcnd 
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(5) Premium for Interost 
Amount payable
Rate Caps and Intcrest 
0 
pursuant to Section 2.07
Rate Collars 
(c) of this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
a3. 
For the purposes of this tablw,i
(a) 
the term "Op2rating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures
incurred by the Boirower in connection with the daily operation of the
Project, includ ng, nter alia, travel costs and per diem, maintenance of
equipment, off ce supplies and materials, costs 
related to strengthening
communicatior and disseminating results, which expenditures would not
have been incurred absent the Project; and
- 17 -
(b) 
the term "Trainng" teans reasonable expenditures (other than those for
consultants' seriices) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the
carrying out of workshops and training preparation and administration
under the Project, including, inter alia, travel costs, and per diem of
train.-es, course fees, rental of training facilities and purchase of training
materials.
B1. 
Withdrawal Condition;; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount nct to exceed US$60,000,000 equivalent may be made
for payments made prioi' to this date but on or after February 10, 2012 (but in no
case more tian one year Frior to the date of this Agreement) for Eligible
Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2019. The Bank shall only grant an extension of
the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with ;uch extension.
Section V. 
Othc r Undertaldng
1I 
The Borrower shall maintain, during Project implementation, a procurement
specialist for SEINFRA and a procurement specialist for SEPLAN, both under
terms of reference satisfi.ctory to the Bank.
2. 
By October 31, 2015, or when Loan disbursements have reached 50% of the
Loan amount, whichever is first, and without limitation to the provisions of
Section 5.08 'b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review (Midterm Review) on
the p-ogress in the implementation of the Project ; and
(b) 
immediately following such Midterm Review, act promptly and
diligently to take any corrective action as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and Bank.
- 18-
cc0
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The followirg table set. forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Instalhrent Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the 
principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the BoIrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and Nvember 15
Beginning November 15, 2017
through May 1i, 2036 
2.56%
On November 15, 2036 
2.72%
2 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Princ pal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loati Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of th s Schedule
(b) 
Any amount wi:hdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each ;uch withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
ScheJule for sail Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shaies for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amou.its repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to i: paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-19-
principal amouints payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Prin.cipal Paym(nt late commencing with the second Principal Payment
Datc following :he date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at aly time tho Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued cn or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of suclt 
sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion ol all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, tho amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable oi any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be deterniinec. by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange ra:e that reflcts the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank inde - the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if th- Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, 1he exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan 3alance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Sc hedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loa r Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Sction I. 
Defiitions
1 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guid elinei" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and C)rruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" 
means the Bank's operational 
policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, and 4.37 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 20, 1.
5. 
"CREMA Contract" means a multi-year contract under Part 1.2 of the Project,
entered into by the Borrower through SEINFRA with a private sector contractor,
which contract obligates the private sector contractor to undertake all phases of
road rehabililation and naintanance work as a single package, from design and
programming of the wor s, through the execution of such works, with respect to
an identified portion c f the corresponding Borrower-managed paved road
network.
6. 
"Cooperation Agreemen:" mans any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Environmental and Sooial Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Borrower's fi-amework, icceptable to the Bank, published and available to the
public on the website h'tp://www.seplan.to.gov.br on January 17, 2012, which
contains, inter alia, (a) t ie environmental and social principles and policies that
shall apply to the implerr enta:ion of Parts 1 (other than Parts 1.2 (a)) and 2 of the
Project, incluJing provis ons For the carrying out of the respective environmental
and social assessments; (b) the guidelines and procedures to be followed in
connection with natural habitats, forests, pest management, chance finding of
cultural property, indigtnous peoples, involuntary resettlement and safety of
dams in respect of Municipal Road Subproject and State Road Improvement
Subprojects; and (c) the Environmental Management Plan.
-21 -
8. 
"Environmental Manage meni Plan" means the Borrower's plan, acceptable to the
Bank, published and made available to the public on January 17, 2012, and
included in the ESVF, which contains the results of the Borrower's
environmental assessm nt of the same date and the mitigation measures to
mitigate, prevent and manage environmental and social impacts and risks
associated w:th the carry ing out of State Road Rehabilitation Subprojects I under
Part 1.2 (a) of the Project.
9 
"General Conditions" rieans the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Developmen General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
1.). 
"Indigenous Peoples Plinning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the
website http://www.seplan.to 
v.b on January 17, 2012, which sets forth the
principles and policies that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of any
indigenous peoples dev .loprnent plan that may be required under the Project
(other than under Part 1.2. (a) of the Project).
1L. 
"Municipal Road Subprcject" any of the investments referred to in Part 1.1 of the
Project.
12. 
"Naturatins" 
means 
institato Natureza do 
Tocantins, the 
Borrower's
environmentEl agency a; existing and operating under the Borrower's Law No
858, dated July 26, 1996 and Decree No. 311, dated August 23, 1996.
13. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.C. of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, dated June 11, 2012, as the same may be amended from time
to time with the agreement of the Bank.
14. 
"Participating Entity" means SEINFRA, 
SEMADES, 
SEAGRO, SEDUC,
Naturatins and Ruraltins
15. 
"PMU" or "?roject Maiagement Unit" means Unidade de Gerenciamento do
Projeto, the unit referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
established by the Borrower's Decree No. 4388, dated September 2, 2011.
16. 
"Procuremen: Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Sen ices under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
1.7. 
"Procuremen: Plan" means :he Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 2, 2012, aid referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines arid paragrap'i 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
- 22 -
lqGfN1,
1:3. 
"Process Framework" or "PF" means the Borrower's framework acceptable to
the Bank (included in tie Resettlement Policy Framework) published and made
available to the public on January 17, 2012, which sets forth, inter alia, the
specific measures to cotipensate for the loss of assets and associated income, and
puts in place grievance resolution mechanisms in order to resolve the issues that
may arise during the im lementation of the pilot activities to be carried out under
Parts 2. 3 (ii) (B) and (iii) (B) of the Project.
19. 
"Resettlement" means te impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or
means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must
move to another locat on); or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land
(including premises, agi icultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired or pos;essed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to
productive assets adven ely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently; or (ii) En involuntary restriction of access to natural resources in
legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes an
adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
20. 
"Resettlement Policy F ramework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's document
published ar.d available to the public on the website http://www. seplan.to.gov.br
on January 17, 2012, specifying the population resettlement policies, planning
principles, institutional arrangements, procurement arrangements and design
criteria that shall apply t) the preparation and carrying out of the resettlement plans
for the resettlement of population that may be required under Municipal Road
Subprojects, State Road Improvement Subprojects, State Road Rehabilitation
Subprojects I (as provided in Section F.7 of this Schedule) and 
State Road
Rehabilitaticn Subprojects II or under Part 2.1 (iv) of the Project, and including the
Process Framework.
2 1. 
"Ruraltins" means Instituto ae Desenvolvimento Rural do Estado de Tocantins, the
Borrower's rural deve opment agency as existing and operating under the
Borrower's Law No. 20, dated April 21, 1989.
22. 
"Regional Development Agenda" means the development agenda for the
Borrower's regions as defined in the Borrower's four-year development plan for
2012-2015 (Plano Plur,anual-PPA 2012-2015).
23. 
"SEAGRO" means S cretaria de Agricultura, Pecudria e Desenvolvimento
Agricola, the Borrower's agriculture, livestock and agricultural development
secretariat or any sucessor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
24. 
"SEDUC" means Secretaria da Educaqdo, the Borrower's education secretariat
or any suces sor thereto satisactory to the Bank.
- 23 -
25. 
"SEINFRA" means Secretaria de Infraestrutura, the Borrower's infrastructure
secretariat or any sucess:r the-reto satisfactory to the Bank.
26. 
"SEMADES" 
means Secretaria do Meio Ambiente 
e Desenvolvimento
Sustentdvel, the Borr wer's environmental and sustainable development
secretariat or any sucess:r the,reto satisfactory to the Bank.
27. 
"SEPLAN" means Secretaria do Planejamento e Modernizaqdo da Gestdo
Ptblica, the Borrowe 's planning and public management modernization
secretariat or any sucessDr thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
28. 
"State Roads Rehabilitation Subproject I" means any of the investments referred
to in Part 1.2. (a) of the 3roject.
29. 
"State Roads Rehabilita:ion Subproject II" means any of the investments referred
to in Part 1.2. (b) of the Project.
30. 
"State Roads Improvement Subproject" means any of the investments referred to
in Part 1.3. of the Project.
3:. 
"Subproject" means an/ Municipal Road Subproject, State Road Improvement
Subproject, 
State 
Roads 
Rehabilitation 
Subproject 
I, or State 
Roads
Rehabilitaticn Subproje,t II.
- 24 -
