IOFMIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 7947-AR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Buenos Aires Infrastructure Sustainable Investment
Development Project-Phase 1)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
Dated e-hrua 
6, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7947-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated FebrUary ( , 2012 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND D5EVELOPMENT ("Bank") and PROVINCE OF
BUENOS AIRES ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing additional financing for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement),
and amending the Original Loan Agreement.
Whereas by an agreement dated March 8, 2005 between the Borrower and the
Bank (the Original Loan Agreement), the Bank made a loan (Loan No. 7268-AR) to the
Borrower in an amount equal to two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000) to assist in
the financing of the Original Project, which Original Project constitutes the first phase of
the Program, on terms and conditions set forth in the Original Loan Agreement.
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
-2-
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General
Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the
Program. To this end, the Borrower shall carry out: (a) Part 1 of the Project,
through MI (with the participation of DIPAC); (b) Part 2 of the Project, through
MI (with the participation of DVBA); and (c) Part 3 of the Project, through MI
(with the participation of DIPSOH), all in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
-3 -
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, provided,
however, that if any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) below shall
have occurred and be continuing, the suspension of the Borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by the Bank at the Bank's
sole discretion to withdrawals in respect of those Water and Sanitation
Subprojects within the jurisdiction of the pertinent Operator affected by said
additional event of suspension:
(a) 
That the regulatory framework mentioned in Section I.B (a) (i) (A) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in
such a manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of
the Bank, the ability of the pertinent Operator to operate and maintain the
corresponding Water and Sanitation Subproject.
(b) 
That any Operator shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations
under the corresponding Framework Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely, that any of the events
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on January 27, 2012.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Economia
Calle 8 entre 45 y 46
La Plata
CP1900 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Facsimile:
0054-221-4294501/02/03
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized 
epresentative
PROVINCE OF BUE 
AIRES
By
Aputhorized Representative
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) enhance the provision of water and
sewerage services for the benefit of low-income people, in particular for those people
living in highly vulnerable areas; (b) improve high priority road segments of the
Borrower's road network; (c) mitigate urban flooding; and (d) support the reactivation of
the Borrower's economy and strengthen its regional competitiveness.
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as
amended solely for purposes of the Loan:
Part 1: Water and Sanitation
Carrying out of selected water and sanitation infrastructure investments,
acceptable to the Bank, in selected urban and peri-urban areas within the Borrower's
territory in order to increase access to the provision of water supply and sanitation
services.
Part 2: Provincial Roads
A. 
Carrying out of rehabilitation works of selected segments of the Borrower's non-
concessioned interurban primary road network, additional to those identified and selected
under the Original Project, all acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Carrying out of rehabilitation works of selected road accesses of the Borrower's
non-concessioned secondary paved network, additional to those identified and selected
under the Original Project, all acceptable to the Bank.
Part 3: Drainage
Carrying out selected drainage investments, acceptable to the Bank, in selected
urban and peri-urban areas within the Borrower's territory in order to mitigate flooding
caused by rainfalls of high intensity and relatively short duration, which investments
consists of, inter alia, the optimization and expansion of storm drainage systems and
primarily macro-drainage infrastructure based on integrated urban drainage plans, as the
same hereby replace those drainage investments (identified and selected under the
Original Project and listed in the Implementation Letter) in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.13 of the Original Loan Agreement.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements
A. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
B. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall carry out, and/or cause to be carried out, the Project in
accordance with a manual (the Operational Manual), which sets forth,
inter alia:
(i) 
the eligibility criteria for Water and Sanitation Subprojects
(which criteria shall reflect poverty targeting and technical
considerations) and Operators (which criteria shall include, inter
alia: (A) the presence of a regulatory framework, acceptable to
the Bank, for the provision of water and sanitation services; (B)
that the Operator is in compliance with the pertinent regulatory
framework mentioned in (A) herein; (C) that the Operator has
furnished evidence, acceptable to the Bank, that the provision of
water and sanitation services is being provided within a context
of economic and financial sustainability, and in accordance with
a cost-recovery mechanism acceptable to the Bank; and (D) the
execution of a binding agreement (the Framework Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and said Operator, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include
inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement);
(ii) 
the eligibility criteria for Drainage Subprojects and Road
Subprojects;
(iii) 
the environmental guidelines to be followed by the Borrower
during 
Project 
implementation 
in 
connection 
with 
the
preparation or updating/adjusting environmental management
plans in respect of Subprojects as referred to in Section I.F of
this Schedule;
(iv) 
the standard environmental provisions to be included in the
bidding documents for the Subprojects to be carried out under
the Project (which shall include provisions: (A) to minimize
natural habitat conversion or degradation and to permit the
maximum growth of natural vegetation (whether it is native
grasslands, scrublands, or forests) within the pertinent right of
-8-
way; and (B) whereby the contractor must comply with: (1) the
pertinent 
provisions 
of the 
corresponding 
environmental
management 
plan 
(including 
the 
provisions 
of 
any
updated/adjusted version of said plan), if any (as referred to in
Section I.F of this Schedule); and (2) the actions to be followed
in connection with the finding of cultural property);
(v) 
the Resettlement Framework and the procedures to be followed
by the Borrower in carrying out preventive screenings and
assessments associated with any potential Resettlement under the
Project;
(vi) 
the standard provisions to be included in the bidding documents
for the Subprojects to be carried out under the Project (which
shall include provisions: (A) to minimize the possibility of any
Resettlement or any potential Resettlement impacts; and (B)
whereby the contractor must comply with: (1) the pertinent
provisions of the corresponding Resettlement Framework and
any Resettlement Action Plan (as referred to in Section L.G of
this Schedule);
(vii) 
the Project's chart of accounts and internal controls;
(viii) 
the format of: (A) the unaudited interim financial reports referred
to in Section II. A. 1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule; and (B) the
Financial Statements;
(ix) 
the terms of reference for carrying out the Project audits under
Section II.B.2 of this Schedule;
(x) 
the Project indicators; and
(xi) 
the Project disbursement and procurement procedures.
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
(a) 
Without limitations to the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General
Conditions, the Bank and the Borrower shall, from time to time during
Project implementation, at the request of any of them, exchange views so
as to enable the Bank to determine compliance of the Operators in
meeting the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
-9-
(b) 
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under each Framework Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any
Framework Agreement or any provision thereof.
D. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and
Section I.C above, the Borrower, through MI, and with the assistance of DIPAC,
shall, prior to the commencement of any given Water and Sanitation Subproject,
ensure that each Water and Sanitation Subproject has been prepared by the
Borrower with the assistance of the relevant Operator, so that each said
Subproject meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
E. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.C and I.D above, the Borrower
shall refrain from presenting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank and/or
withdrawing Loan proceeds from the Designated Account (all under Category
(1)) to finance any given Water and Sanitation Subproject located within the
jurisdiction of a given Operator, until the Borrower has presented evidence,
acceptable to the Bank, indicating that: (a) prior to the commencement of the
pertinent works under any said Water and Sanitation Subproject, said Operator
has met the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and (b) the
Borrower is in compliance with the pertinent obligations set forth in this
Agreement in respect of Water and Sanitation Subprojects.
F. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MI (and with the assistance of DIPAC, DIPSOH or DVBA as
the case may be), shall, upon the definition of the precise sitting alignments for
any given Subproject, and prior to the carrying out of any works, if applicable as
determined by the Bank: (i) update/adjust or cause to be updated/adjusted (as the
case may be) the environmental assessment for said Subproject, under terms of
reference 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) 
based on said updated/adjusted
environmental assessment, and if determined by the Bank: (A) prepare and
approve an environmental management plan; or (B) update/adjust or cause to be
updated/adjusted (as the case may be) the pertinent existing environmental
management 
plan; and (iii) thereafter, implement and/or cause to be
implemented, the newly prepared environmental management plan or the existing
updated/adjusted environmental management plan (as the case may be), all in
accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
G. 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of this Agreement in respect of any
given Subproject in which works are involved, and if as a result of the definition
of the precise sitting alignments it is determined by the Bank that Resettlement
will be involved, the Borrower, through MI (and with the assistance of DIPAC,
DIPSOH or DVBA as the case may be) shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any
- 10-
said works, prepare and/or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, a
Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall be consistent
with the pertinent provisions of the Resettlement Framework); and (b) thereafter,
implement and/or cause to be implemented, said Resettlement Action Plan in
accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
H. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall operate and maintain, at all times during Project
implementation, the UCO with a structure, functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility of the
UCO to administer (on behalf of the Borrower) the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Bank and assist the Borrower in the
coordination, monitoring and supervision of the carrying out of the
Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the UCO is, at all times during Project
implementation, headed by an Executive Director appointed by the
Minister of Economy (in its capacity as general coordinator), and other
professional staff such as a procurement and financial management
specialists and administrative staff, all in numbers and with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank as provided in the Operational
Manual.
I. 
The Borrower shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar year during
Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each said
calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in the
relevant annual budget in order to keep track of the corresponding expenditures
incurred during Project implementation.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth
in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester (starting with the first calendar semester of the
year 2011), and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty days
after the end of the period covered by such report.
(b) 
The Borrower shall include, as part of the information to be included in
the Progress Reports: (i) a summary of the Eligible Expenditures
incurred during the calendar semester covered by the pertinent Progress
Report and their corresponding payment (including those expenditures
incurred during said period of time which are not financed by the Loan);
- 11 -
and (ii) the interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the calendar semester in question, all in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
(c) 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall, not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation
(starting in the year 2011), exchange views with the Bank (the annual
reviews).
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
3. 
The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, hire an
auditor on the terms provided in Section 5.09 (b) (i) of the General Conditions
for purposes of assisting the Borrower in complying with its obligation referred
to in paragraph 2 above.
Section I. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services. 
All goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
- 12 -
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
4. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to the other provisions in Section III of
this Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the
procurement of goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and consultants' services
under the Project (as the case may be):
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and consultants'
services (in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) standard
bidding documents (which bidding documents in respect of works shall
include a provision whereby the pertinent contractor must comply with
the pertinent provisions of the Operational Manual, the corresponding
environmental management plan (including the provisions of any
updated/adjusted 
version of said plan) and/or the corresponding
Resettlement Action Plan (as the case may be), as referred to in Sections
I.F and I.G of this Schedule, respectively) and standard requests for
quotations/proposals, all acceptable to the Bank, which shall all include,
inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision and the pertinent provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) model bid evaluation forms, and
model quotations/proposals evaluations forms (as the case may be); and
(iii) model contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
all contracts for works to be procured under the Project shall contain the
applicable methodology, agreed upon by the Bank and the Borrower,
whereby the price of each said contract shall be adjusted through the use
of price adjustment formulas, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
However, a factor representing "General Expenses" may be added to the
price adjustment formula;
(c) 
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 2.8 of the Procurement
Guidelines, and in cases in which contracts for large or complex works
and/or goods (as determined by the Bank) are involved, prospective
bidders and/or bidders (as the case may be) shall be given: (i) at least 8
weeks for the preparation and submission of prequalification responses;
and (ii) at least 12 weeks for the preparation and submission of their
bids;
(d) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed 
in the
procurement of works;
- 13 -
(e) 
after the public opening of bids for works, information relating to the
examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and recommendations
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not
officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract
award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned
with said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other
bidders' bids;
(f) 
foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
submitting bids or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to
be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a representative in Argentina; and
(iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine suppliers, contractors or
consultants;
(g) 
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings and
the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of bids of all works shall
be published by the Borrower in a web page acceptable to the Bank, and
in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be counted
from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of the
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of
bid opening;
(h) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and
2.59 of the Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts
for works to be procured under National 
Competitive Bidding
procedures;
(i) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be
used by the Borrower, through UCO, and/or by DIPAC, DVBA or
DIPSOH (as the case may be) in determining if the bidder in respect of
goods whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has
the capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as
offered in the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph
2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. The provision set forth in paragraph
2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation set forth
herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be procured
under National Competitive Bidding procedures;
(j) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid
rejection or contract award;
- 14 -
(k) 
the Borrower, through UCO, shall: (i) supply the Bank's publicly
accessible Procurement Plans Execution System (SEPA) with the
information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days
after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the
Procurement Plan at least every three months, or as required by the Bank,
to reflect the actual project implementation needs and progress and shall
supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated
Procurement Plan immcdiately thereafter;
(1) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement
Guidelines providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids
shall not apply to works contracts to be executed in the territory of the
Borrower in respect of contracts for works to be procured under
International Competitive Bidding procedures; and
(in) 
no domestic preference established by Law No. 7.764 shall be allowed in
the evaluation of bids for goods, works and Non-Consultant Services.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
Non-Consultant Services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
IAl
- 15 -
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Least-Cost Selection
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Single-Source Selection
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 16-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, goods, 
49,875,000 
75%
consultant services and
Non-consultant
Services under Water
and Sanitation, Road
and Drainage
Subprojects
(2) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of twenty
percent (20%) of the Loan amount may be made for payments made prior to this
date but on or after January 1, 2010 (but in no case more than one year prior to
the date of this Agreement) for Eligible Expenditures, if the pertinent obligations
set forth in this Agreement, as applicable to each Eligible Expenditure have been
complied with.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013.
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh
(11th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the
Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on the fiftieth (50th)
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount. Each installment shall be equal to one-fortieth (1/40) of the Disbursed
Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount
of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after
February 15, 2039, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate
amount of all such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
- 18-
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Framework Agreements
Each Framework Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:
With respect to the Operator:
(a) 
a legal representation that, through the signing of the Framework
Agreement, it has provided its written consent to permit the Borrower to
carry out Water and Sanitation 
Subprojects located within the
jurisdiction of said Operator;
(b) 
a legal representation that the Framework Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Operator and is legally binding upon the
Operator in accordance with its terms;
(c) 
a legal representation that it has adhered to, and/or is regulated by, the
regulatory framework mentioned in Section I.B (a) (i) (A) of Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement;
(d) 
a legal representation that the Water and Sanitation Subprojects meet the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and that each said
subproject is technically feasible, and has been prepared and design with
the assistance of the Borrower; and
(e) 
the obligation of the Operator:
(i) 
to comply with the pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines;
(ii) 
to ensure that the provision of water and sanitation services is
provided 
within 
a context 
of economic 
and 
financial
sustainability, 
and 
in 
accordance 
with 
a 
cost-recovery
mechanism acceptable to the Bank;
(iii) 
to take all necessary action within its jurisdiction to permit the
Borrower to carry out the Water and Sanitation Subprojects in
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement;
(iv) 
to designate a representative to carry out jointly with the
Borrower's representative the supervision of the Water and
Sanitation Subprojects;
- 19 -
(v) 
to issue a certificate of acceptance upon satisfactory completion
of any given Water and Sanitation Subproject, and to thereafter
operate and maintain the same in accordance with the regulatory
framework referred to in Section I.B (a) (i) (A) of Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement;
(vi) 
to comply with the provisions of the regulatory framework
mentioned in Section I.B (a) (i) (A) of Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement; and
(vii) 
not to amend, terminate, derogate, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce the Framework Agreement or any provision thereof
without the previous consent of the Bank.
2. 
With respect to the Borrower:
(a) 
a legal representation that the Framework Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms; and
(b) 
the obligation of the Borrower:
(i) 
to ensure that each Water and Sanitation Subproject is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines;
(ii) 
to carry out the Water and Sanitation Subprojects in accordance
with the pertinent provisions of the Loan Agreement;
(iii) 
to finance the total cost of the carrying out of Water and
Sanitation Subprojects;
(iv) 
to take all appropriate actions to enable the pertinent Operator to
make the legal representation mentioned in paragraph 1 (d)
above; and
(v) 
upon satisfactory completion of any given Water and Sanitation
Subproject, and the corresponding acceptance of said fact by the
Operator, to transfer to the Operator the possession (tenencia) of
said Water and Sanitation Subproject, in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Amendments to the Original Loan Agreement
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement
as follows:
A. 
Section 3.11 (b) of the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended in its
entirety to read as follows:
"Section 3.11. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
...
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish
to the Bank, not later than sixty days after the end of each calendar semester
during Project implementation (starting with the report due in July 2005), a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project (including the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the corresponding investment plan referred to in Section 3.16 of this
Agreement) during the calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during
the following calendar semester; and"
B. 
Section 3.15 of the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to
read as follows:
"Section 3.15. 
The Borrower shall: (i) no later than March 31, 2005 hire an
auditor, acceptable to the Bank, with professional qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank, for purposes of carrying out the financial audits referred
to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and (ii) no later than sixty calendar
days after the end of each calendar semester (starting with the calendar semester
ending in June 2005) prepare and furnish to the Bank, a report of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the results of the
audits carried out during said calendar semester."
- 21 -
C. 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended in its
entirety to read as follows:
"Section 4.02.
(a) ...
(b) 
The first FMR shall be firnished to the Bank not later than 60 days after
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the
end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than 60 days after each subsequent calendar semester, and
shall cover such calendar semester."
D. 
The table set forth in Section 1 of Schedule I to the Original Loan Agreement is
hereby replaced in its entirety by the following:
"1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan 
% of
Allocated 
Expenditures
Cateigory 
(Expressed in Dollars) 
to be financed
(1) Works
(a) under Water and 
58,144,000 
79%
Sewerage
Subprojects
(b) under Road 
136,301,000 
79%
Subprojects
(c) under Drainage 
0 
0
Subprojects
(d) under Part B.7 of 
0 
0
the Project
(2) Goods 
928,000 
80%
(3) Consultants' services 
3, 242,900 
71%
- 22 -
Amount of the Loan 
% of
Allocated 
Expenditures
Category 
(Expressed in Dollars) 
to be financed
(4) Non-Consultant 
0 
0
Services
(5) Training 
384,100 
100%
(6) Front-end-fee 
1,000,000 
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated 
0
TOTAL 
200,000,000"
- 23 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
Section III of this Appendix.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
4. 
"DIPAC" means Direcci6n Provincial de Servicios Ptiblicos de Agua y Cloacas,
the Borrower's Provincial Water and Sewerage Public Services Directorate
established within MI (as said term is defined herein).
5. 
"DIPSOH" means Direcci6n Provincial de Saneamiento y Obras Hidr6ulicas,
the Provincial Sewerage and Hydraulic Directorate established within MI (as said
term is defined herein).
6. 
"Drainage Subproject" means any of the investments under Part 3 of the Project
which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as said term is
defined herein).
7. 
"DVBA" means Direcci6n de Vialidad de Buenos Aires, the Borrower's
Provincial Road Agency established under the jurisdiction of MI (as said term is
defined herein) pursuant to the Borrower's Decree Law No. 7.943/72 of
November 21, 1972, as said Decree Law has been amended to the date of this
Agreement.
8. 
"Framework Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.B
(a) (i) (D) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
Appendix.
10. 
"General Expenses" means any reasonable indirect and/or fixed costs incurred by
a given contractor in support of Project execution, and that are not related to the
direct execution of works under a particular contract. General Expenses may
- 24 -
include, inter alia, items such as field office expenses; central office expenses;
security expenses; communications; equipment insurance costs; equipment and
machinery depreciation costs and a share of salaries of supporting technical and
administrative staff set in a reasonable proportion in the contractor's bid and
agreed upon in the relevant contract.
11. 
"Implementation Letter" means the letter dated March 8, 2005 from the Borrower
to the Bank setting forth, inter alia, the list of drainage investments to be
financed under the Original Project.
12. 
"Law No. 7.764" means the Borrower's Law No. 7.764 of August 31, 1971,
governing, inter alia, public procurement, and such term also includes the
regulations to said law concerning public procurement, as said law and
regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement.
13. 
"MI" 
means Ministerio de Infraestructura, the Borrower's Ministry 
of
Infrastructure.
14. 
"Non-Consultant Services" means services under the Project, which services will
be bid and contracted on the basis of performance of measurable physical
outputs.
15. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, acceptable to the Bank,
dated June 16, 2005, updated on June 3, 2010, and referred to in Section I.B (a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"Operator" means a water and sanitation utility which is either, publicly owned
and/or controlled (including any of the Borrower's municipalities), or privately
owned (including a cooperative), which has been granted and/or assigned the
responsibility to provide water and sanitation services within the Borrower's
territory.
17. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the agreement dated March 8, 2005 between
the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 7268-AR), as amended.
18. 
"Original Project" means the Buenos Aires Infrastructure Sustainable Investment
Development Project whose objectives and activities are set forth in Schedule 2
to the Original Loan Agreement (as said term is defined herein).
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006 and May 2010.
-25 -
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated June 2, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Program" means the Borrower's program (consisting of two phases) set forth or
referred to in the letter dated November 10, 2004 from the Borrower to the Bank,
as said program has been updated through letter dated June 6, 2007 from the
Borrower to the Bank.
22. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
23. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the resettlement plans, acceptable to the Bank,
that may be completed during the implementation of the Project for the carrying
out of Subprojects, which shall follow the relevant provisions contained in the
Resettlement Framework and which may be amended from time to time with the
prior no objection of the Bank.
24. 
"Resettlement Framework" means the Borrower's framework dated September 1,
2009, available to the public on the website of the Borrower's Ministry of
Economy, outlining implementation 
procedures, mitigation measures and
monitoring procedures in relation to any Resettlement under the Project; as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
25. 
"Road Subproject" means any of the investments under Part 2 of the Project
which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as said term is
defined herein).
26. 
"Subproject" means a Drainage Subproject, a Road Subproject and/or a Water
and Sanitation Subproject (as the case may be).
27. 
"UCO" means Unidad de Coordinacidn con Organismos Multilaterales de
Cridito, the Borrower's Unit for Coordination with Multilateral Credit
Organizations (established within the Borrower's Ministry of Economy
(Ministerio de Economia) pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 1977 of
October 1, 2009), and acting as the Project coordination unit, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-26 -
28. 
"Water and Sanitation Subproject" means any of the investments under Part 1 of
the Project which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as said
term is defined herein).
Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
.1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee
and Interest
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association
("Preparation Advance"), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance."
2. 
Paragraph (1) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank
... 
(1) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the
Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier
that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent,
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds
ofa financing made by such financier."
-27-
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical
order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The term "Project Preparation Advance" is modified to read "Preparation
Advance" and its definition is modified to read as follows:
"'Preparation Advance' means the advance referred to in the Financing
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07."
(b) 
The definition of the term "Conversion Date" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Conversion Date' means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect,
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines."
Section HI. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:
1. 
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
as follows:
"... (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
1 .
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:
"... (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank's sanctions policies and procedures
(fnl3) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract,
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
-28-
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier."
Footnotes:
"13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank's sanctions
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use
ofthe proceeds ofa financing made by such financier."
"14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines."
"15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank's website
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders."
44-
