OffiCIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8129-AM
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Water Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
7, J 
2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8129-AM
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
/ 
2 /, 
2012, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATI 
AL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February I and August 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the Project
Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing
Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia
1 Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
+374-10-524282
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Yr,R FV/JA/ 
,t 
F A/VA, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorize 
epresentative
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support improvement of the quality and availability of
water supply in selected AWSC Service Area.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Investments in Water Supply Systems
1. 
Design, implementation and supervision of the rehabilitation of water systems in the
cities of Masis, Echmiadzin and Ashtarak, including their neighboring settlements by
rehabilitation of water networks linked to operation efficiency and reduction of non-
revenue water by financing physical infrastructure.
Part B: Project Implementing Entity Investments
1. 
Water meters replacement and installation of meter chambers to reduce commercial
losses.
2. 
Automation of pumping stations and reservoirs.
3. 
Procurement of equipment and machinery for improved quality and management system.
Part C: Project Implementing Entity Management Strengthening
1. 
Financing of fees of the Enhanced Management Contract to improve the Project
Implementation Entity's administration, operations, maintenance, and to ensure optimal
implementation of program's investment funds.
2. 
Carrying out of technical studies, Project management and monitoring, including
financing of independent technical and financial audits and Operating Costs.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
delegate the responsibility for Project management, including day to day
implementation and administration, to the Project Implementing Entity and the
responsibility for ensuring that implementation activities comply with schedules
and investment programs to the CBD of the Project Implementing Entity;
(b) 
designate the State Committee of Water Economy as the Contract Monitoring
Unit with the responsibility for, inter alia, screening/reviewing 
of proposed
investment programs/sub-projects, assigning them environmental categories,
preparing monitoring reports, liaising with the management contractor and the
Bank on the proposed investment programs' compliance with the national legal
and Bank's environmental requirements as set out in the EMF; and
(c) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity in coordination with the CMU to recruit
not later than December 31, 2012 consultants required for Parts A, B and C.2 of
the Project implementation, and thereafter with support of the said consultants be
responsible for: (i) approving of proposed sub-projects' feasibility studies; (ii)
ensuring proper preparation of detailed engineering designs and tender
documents; and (iii) undertaking construction supervision of all subprojects.
2. 
(a) 
For purposes of implementing of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project Implementing Entity extends the Enhanced Management
Contract acceptable to the Bank with an international management contractor
with the responsibility for managing the Project Implementing Entity and
conducting a range of services, including, but not limited to, preparation and
implementation of programs referred to in the Enhanced Management Contract.
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity exercises its
right to the Enhanced Management Contract in such manner as to protect the
interest of the Bank and the Borrower and ensure that: (i) all the necessary
licenses and permits required for the management contractor to carry out the
activities under the Enhanced Management Contract have been obtained; and (ii)
any changes in the level or structure of tariffs for water and wastewater services
are implemented in accordance with the relevant national policies and legal
requirements.
-6-
3. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
review jointly with the management contractor on an annual basis, the financial
status of the Project Implementing 
Entity, including its revenues 
and
expenditures for the preceding and following semesters, and its projected
financial performance and take the necessary measures, including tariff increases
as required by national law, as well as improved revenue collections to ensure
that the Project Implementing Entity meets its projected financial requirements;
and
(b) 
adopt in its annual 
budget, the financial requirements of the Project
Implementing Entity, which cannot be met by revenues collected by the Project
Implementing Entity as assessed by the management contractor and approved by
CBD.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved
by the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement") which shall include the following:
(a) 
the amount of Subsidiary Loan to the Project Implementing Entity shall be made
available in Dollars and/or Drams;
(b) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by the Project
Implementing Entity in Dollars or in Drams to the Borrower in semi-annual
installments over twenty five (25) years, including a grace period up to ten (10)
years; and
(c) 
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balances of the Subsidiary Loans at a
rate acceptable to the Bank and to be determined as follows: (i) the interest rate
for Subsidiary Loans denominated in Dollars shall represent the prevailing
interest rate as determined in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Agreement;
and (ii) the interest rate for Subsidiary Loans denominated in Drams shall be
determined by a methodology acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-7-
D. 
Safeguards.
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to: (a) apply to all activities under the Project the criteria, policies,
procedures and arrangements set out in the EMF for the Project, and the site specific
EMMPs to be developed and approved by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b)
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived the EMF, and site specific
EMMPs or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, may
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower, acting through the Project
Implementing Entity, shall ensure that:
(a) 
the investments selected meet the criteria set out in the Enhanced Management
Contract; and
(b) 
all measures necessary and satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying out of the site
specific EMMPs are taken in a timely manner and appropriately documented in
the progress reports referred to in paragraph I of Part A of Section II of this
Schedule and if necessary, adjustments which the Bank and the Borrower deem
appropriate may be made in the site specific EMMPs to protect human health and
the environment.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after
the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
-8-
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely
fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project Implementing Entity shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the
Project Implementing Entity for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated maximum debt service
requirements of the Project Implementing Entity for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt of the Project Implementing Entity, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Project Implementing
Entity maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations
adjusted to take account of the Project Implementing Entity's
rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve (12) month period to
which such revenues relate and net non-operating income; and
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
cash operating charges and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations;
and
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
-9-
(v) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt.
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to
the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consulting services.
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be
used:
- 10 -
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for
procurement of works and goods for the Project, provided that the
following provisions are complied with:
(i) 
entities in which the Borrower owns a majority shareholding shall
not be invited to participate in tenders for the Government, unless
they are, and can be shown to be, legally and financially
autonomous and operate under commercial law;
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large and complex works
projects;
(iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of
bidders;
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations;
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening;
(vi) 
bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions of
clause 2.61 and 2.64 of the Procurement Guidelines are met;
(vii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or
expressed as a pass/fail criteria;
(viii) advance Bank's approval is required for any substantial
modifications in the contract scope/conditions during
implementation; and
(ix) 
the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents, satisfactory to
the Bank;
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
- 11 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Least Cost Selection
(c) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(d) 
Single-source Selection of Consulting Firms; and
(e) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
- 12 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non- 
14,962,500 
83%
consulting 
services, 
and
consultants' 
services 
and
Operating 
Costs 
for 
the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
37,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
15,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date
but on or after September 22, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015.
- 13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February I and August 1
Beginning August 1, 2022
through August 1, 2036 
3.33%
On February 1, 2037 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
- 14 -
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"AWSC Service Area" means the area defined in Appendix 4 of the Enhanced
Management Contract.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
5. 
"Contract Monitoring Unit" or "CMU" means the unit within the Borrower's State
Committee of Water Economy responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the
Project, or any successor thereto.
6. 
"Company's Board of Directors" or "CBD" means a body consisting of stakeholders
from the various ministries, chaired by the Chairman of State Committee of Water
Economy, established pursuant to a Government's Decree No. 1693-N (November 6,
2003), and responsible for Project management and supervision.
7. 
"Dram" means a lawful currency of the Borrower.
8. 
"Enhanced Management Contract" means the performance-based management contract
amendment No. 4 dated October 17, 2011 to the Management Contract for Extension of
the Private Management of Water and Wastewater Services in the AWSC Service Area
of August 19, 2004 between the Project Implementing Entity and an international
management contractor, or any subsequent agreement acceptable to the Bank, for the
management of water and wastewater services in the AWSC Service Area.
9. 
"Enhanced Management Services" means the services provided by the international
management contractor to ensure the efficient management of the Project Implementing
Entity and the operation of the water supply and wastewater system under Part C of the
Project.
10. 
"EMF" means the environmental management framework, dated January 19, 2012,
outlining the procedures for the environmental screening, management, consultation and
disclosure related to the rehabilitation works in the selected AWSC Services Area under
Parts A and B of the Project.
- 16 -
11. 
"EMMP/s" means the environmental management and monitoring plans for selected
AWSC Service Area under Parts A and B of the Project to be prepared and approved by
the Borrower pursuant to Section I.D. 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, describing
the environmental mitigation and monitoring measures under Parts A and B of the
Project, satisfactory to the Bank.
12. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the 
"International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
13. 
"Operating Costs" means expenditures, as approved by the Bank on the basis of budgets
acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the implementation of the Project by the Project
Implementing Entity and CMU on account of office supplies, utilities, office equipment,
maintenance, the costs of support staff salaries (excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil
service staff).
14. 
"Operations Manual" means a manual satisfactory to the Bank, developed by the
management contractor, approved by the CBD, and adopted by the Project Implementing
Entity, setting forth the operational, maintenance and administrative procedures for the
implementation of the Project.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
January 24, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and AWSC of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
18. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "AWSC" means the Armenian Water and Sewerage
Company, which is a water and wastewater utilities state owned joint stock company,
duly established and operating pursuant to the Republic of Armenia Government Decree
No. 234 of April 1, 1999, or any successor thereto with whom the Bank will enter into the
Project Agreement.
19. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" 
means 
the charter of the Project
Implementing Entity, dated January 14, 2004, Registration No. 005573, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
20. 
"State Committee of Water Economy" or "SCWE" means a government agency
responsible for irrigation, drinking water and wastewater services, duly established and
operating in the Republic of Armenia pursuant to a Government Resolution No. 92 of
February 9, 2001, or any successor thereto.
- 17 -
21. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means the subsidiary loan provided under the Subsidiary Agreement.
22. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity.
- 18-
