foma
DOCUMS!
LOAN NUMBER 8159-CN
Loan Agreement
(Ningxia Desertification Control and Ecological Protection Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
2,,1 
,2012, between PEOPLE'S
7
REPUBLIC OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and
the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General
Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lenc to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eighty million
Dollars ($80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described
in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may wi-hdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this-Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a
rate equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable
Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with
the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General 
Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such nonpayment continues for a period
of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead
be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15, and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of thc Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.C5(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1I- 
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To
this end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the
Project Implementing Entity (Ningxia) in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
-3 -
3.02 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
]REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 68 55 11 25
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, Pecple's Republic of China, as of the day and year
First above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Aut orized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
Ihe objective of the Project is to control desertification and degradation and
:rotect key farmland and infrastructure in strategically selected locations in
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Controlling Desertification and Degradation
(a) 
Moving Sand Stabilization. Carrying out a program to halt the movement of
shifting sand dunes and prevent encroachment of shifting sand onto
agricultural land, settlerients and infrastructure through, inter alia, the
establishment of straw checker boards combined with the seeding and
planting of indigenous shrub and grass on about 19,000 hectares of moving
and semi-moving sand dune areas in Ningxia, and implementing fire
control measures, including the construction of fire breaking tracks and
passage routes, watch tcwers, and small buildings for technical staff and
workers, information boa-ds and warning signs.
(b) 
Degradation Control and Re-vegetation. Carrying out a program to control and
reverse degradation of arid and semi-arid shrubland and steppe areas
through, inter alia, closing, protecting and managing for natural re-
vegetation about 42,000 hectares of degraded arid and semi-arid areas, shrub
planting and assisted vegetation restoration in an additional 4,600 hectares,
including construction of access tracks serving as fire breaks, watch towers
and other infrastructure required to manage and monitor the rehabilitated
areas.
(c) 
Integrated Land Management. Carrying out a program to mitigate any potential
negative impacts on land users from desertification control and vegetation
rehabilitation measures resulting from the implementation of Parts A (a)
and A (b) of the Project, including implementing the Process Framework,
carrying out economic tree plantations and fodder production for livestock to
compensate for access restrictions to grazing areas, and developing
long-term land management arrangements for selected sites.
Part B: Protective Shelterbelt Plantations
Carrying out a program 
to protect key farmland and infrastructure 
from
desertification and sand encroa-hment through, inter alia, the establishment of
multi-layer and multistorey tree and shrub shelterbelts in about 5,500 hectares along
roads, irrigation canals and around agricultural fields and fruit orchards in selected
-6-
ocations, including installing supplemental irrigation systems to ensure the
3uccessful establishment of shelterbelt plantings
Part C: Project Management, Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical assistance support for carrying out: (a) information and awareness
campaigns for project beneficiaries and stakeholders; (b) the detailed technical
design, field implementation and construction, construction supervision, and final
acceptance checks of desertification control works, safeguards supervision, and
Project progress reporting; (c) applied research; (d) training on the establishment,
maintenance and post-managerrent of desertification control and plantation
investments for long-term sustainability; and (e) desertification control impact
monitoring and field demonstration that is integrated into the Borrower's national
and regional desertification monitoring system.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Financing and Imtitutional
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1I 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entity the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Categories for each such
Entity as set forth in the table in Section IV of this Schedule under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years,
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding fronr time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of th] s Agreement.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
1 .
The Borrower shall ensurc that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring7, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports ia accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Annex of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall
-8-
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than March 15 and September 15 in each year, beginning on March 15,
2013.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provision of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Progress Report not later than
March 15 and September 15 in each year beginning March 15, 2013, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have ils Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall zover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six(6) ronths after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. All goods,
works, and non-consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Prccurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this
Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds cf the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capital,zed terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding methoc. described in Sections II and III of the Procurement
Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
-9-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraphs 2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the
Recipient (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the
Recipient).
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be
used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan.
Procurement Methods
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding:
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the
People's Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the President
of the People's Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following
clarifications 
requ red 
for 
compliance 
with 
the 
Procurement
Guidelines:
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised
in a newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's country,
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less than
$2,000,000 eqiivalent each and goods contracts that are estimated
to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be
advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be
given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline
for such submission.
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be
specified in detail in the bidding documents.
- 10-
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there
shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders.
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity (Ningxia), as the case maybe, in case of breach of
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall
specify the required form and amount of such security.
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the
deadline for receipt of such bids.
(vi) 
All bids shall 
e opened in public; all bidders shall be
offered an opportunity to be present (either in person or
through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, but
bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in
the form of pass,fail requirements.
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid
price falls outside any standard contract estimate, or
margin or bracket of average bids established by the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (Ningxia), as
the case maybe.
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
submitted.
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the
Bank.
-11 -
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may
be permitted to bic or submit a proposal of goods and works if they can
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B)
operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the
agency conducting the procurement.
(xii) Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of
bids is less than three (3) and, rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not
take place without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be
published in the national press or provincial press or official gazette or a
free and open access website and shall identify the name and offered
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope
of the awarded contract.
(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity (Ningxia) shall have in place
provisions for bidders to protest.
(a) 
Shopping
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(b) 
Quality-Based Selection
(c) 
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) 
Single-Source Selection
- 12 -
3. 
The shortlist of consul-ants for services estimated to cost less than an
amount established by the Bank from time to time may comprise entirely
of national consultants.
[). 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to
the Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Sectior and such additional instructions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" cated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions),
to finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions; (b) if applicable, the Premium for Interest Rate Caps or
Interest Rate Collars in accordance with Section 2.07(c) of the General
Conditions; and (c) other Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the
allocation of the amount5 of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to
Allocated (Expressed 
be Financed
Category 
in Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Civil works, non-consulting 
79,000,000
-
79,00,00074%
services and goods
(2) Consultants' services, Training
and Incremental Operating
Costs 
800,000 
100%
(3) Front-end Fee 
200,000 
100%
(4) 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL 
80,000,000 1_1
- 13 -
8. 
Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the prov sions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall
be made in respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals up to an amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent
may be made for paymen-s made prior to this date but on or after February 1,
2012, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2018.
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first ?rincipal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date;
by
(b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 201 7 through 
2%
May 15, 2042
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 15 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amcunts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be
treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on
each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding tEe provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Eank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date,
the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization
schedule for each such amount.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Loans", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January
2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant 
Guidelines" 
means 
the 
"Guidelines: 
Selection 
and
Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"Environmental Protection Guidelines" and the acronym "EPG" mean the
Guidelines prepared and adopted by Ningxia dated December 18, 2011, setting
forth, inter alia, the assessment of the environmental impacts of the
Project, 
recommendations 
for 
mitigation 
of adverse 
impacts 
and
enhancement of positive impacts based on such assessment, including,
measures for avoidance of or mitigation against adverse impact on natural
habitats or physical cultural resources as well as arrangements for reporting
and monitoring as the same may be revised from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
5. 
"Financial Management Manual" means the Financial Management Manual
for the Project dated November 2, 2011, prepared and adopted by Ningxia
which sets out, inter clia, the policies, procedures and guidelines for
establishing 
and maintaining 
a financial 
management 
system 
to 
be
implemented by it in carrying out the Project, including internal controls,
accounting procedures, find and asset management, withdrawal application
procedures, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements as the same may be
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and such term
includes all attachments arid annexes supplemental to such Manual.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
7. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs
under the Project, based on annual work plans and budgets as approved by
the Bank, and incurred by Ningxia for purposes of Project preparation,
implementation, management, coordination and monitoring and evaluation,
on account of utilities and supplies, communications, vehicle operation and
maintenance, office space rental, building and equipment maintenance,
- 17-
public awareness-related media expense, international and domestic travel
and subsistence, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding
salaries, fees, honoraria, bonuses, and any other salary supplements of members
of the Borrower's and Ningxia's civil service.
3, 
"Ningxia" means the Borrower's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, and
any successor thereto.
9. 
"Pest 
Management 
Plan" 
and the acronym 
"PMP" 
mean the Pest
Management Plan dated December 18, 2011, prepared and adopted by
Ningxia and to be implemented or caused to be implemented by it for
improving integrated pest management activities during the design,
construction 
and operation 
of the Project, including 
environmental,
occupational and safety risk assessment, capacity building, grievance handling
mechanisms, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements, as such plan
may be amended from ti ne to time with the prior written approval of the
Bank; and such Plan includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to
such plan.
10. 
"Process Framework" means the framework, dated November 25, 2011,
prepared and adopted by Ningxia, which sets out, inter alia, the policies and
procedures for closure of open access areas for vegetation rehabilitation and
protection, the mechanisms for information dissemination, training, and the
participation of Project Affected Persons in the design and implementation
of the Project, the provisions for appropriate compensatory and mitigation
measures to ensure that ivelihoods of such Persons are compensated and
negative livelihood impacts brought about by the Project are avoided or
mitigated, the monitoring and reporting procedures, 
and grievance
handling mechanism, as the same may be revised from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and
annexes supplemental to such Framework.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Manual" means the Manual dated December 23, 2011, prepared
and adopted by Ningxia, which sets out, inter alia, the detailed policies,
procedures and arrangements for carrying out procurement under the
Project, including the documents to be prepared, the reviews to be carried
out, the selection procecures to be followed, and supervision and dispute
resolution mechanisms.
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Procurement Plan of Ningxia dated
December 23, 2011, for the Project, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of
- 18-
the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 
1.25 of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraphs.
4. 
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution
of the Project would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by the involuntary restriction of access to open access areas, resulting
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons.
5. 
"Project Agreement" means the Project agreement for the Project between
Ningxia and the Bank dated the same date as this Agreement, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time with the prior written
approval of the Bank, arid such term includes all appendices, schedules
and agreements supplemental to said Agreement.
16. 
"Project Counties" means collectively the following seven administrative
areas of Ningxia selected by Ningxia in accordance with criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank for carrying out the Project as set out in
the Project Implementation Manual: Lingwu City; Litong District; Pingluo
County; 
Qingtongxia City; Xingqing District; Yanchi County; 
and
Zhongwei City; and "Project County" means individually any such area.
17. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Manual dated March 15, 2012,
prepared and adopted by Ningxia which sets out the criteria, procedures and
arrangements in accordance with which the activities under the Project will
be screened, selected, appraised, approved, implemented, supervised and
evaluated, 
the treatmen: 
models, 
technical 
standards 
and 
sequencing
methodology to be applied for the plantation and other activities under the
Project, 
site 
selection 
and 
contract 
management 
procedures, 
the
responsibilities of the agencies and entities involved in different aspects of
Project management and implementation, the training and capacity building
activities to be carried oul and includes, inter alia, the detailed arrangements
for applying the Financial Management Manual, the Environmental
Protection Guidelines, the Process Framework, the Procurement Manual,
the Procurement Plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and
annexes supplemental to such Manual.
18. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Ningxia.
19. 
"Selected Areas" means the areas selected by Ningxia within the Project
Counties in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank,
as set out in the Project Implementation Manual, for carrying out
plantation and vegetation rehabilitation activities under the Project over
land belonging to forest farms of the Project Counties and farmer collectives
- 19 -
following a due process of assessment, consultation and participation under
arrangements as set out in said Manual.
20. 
"Training" means for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per diem of trainees
attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars, the cost of organizing
workshops, training and seminars, and the cost of delivering training
(excluding consultants fees) such as rental of training space and training
equipment and other logis:ical costs, all as yearly budgeted and approved by
Ningxia and the Bank.
