OFFICIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8170-CN
Loan Agreement
(Gansu Qingyang Urban Infrastructure Improvement Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
)- 
/ 
,2012
7
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
, 2012 between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agrcement.
ARTICLE H - LOAN
2.01. 
At the Borrower's request, the Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000) as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Lcan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity (Gansu) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
-3-
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -- REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that
Xifeng District or QWSSC shall have failed to perform any of their respective
obligations under the QWSSC Agreement.
ARTICLE V -EFITECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank fcr Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By 
Authori d ep 
entative
Name:?
Title:P
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Title: 
6-'7 
a$wCA
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to assist Qingyang Municipality to improve
selected urban infrastructure services, including urban roads and urban environmental
services.
The Project consists of the following parts subject to modifications thereof as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part . Urban Infrastructure Improvements
1 .
Urban Bypass:
(a) 
construction of bypass roads of the southern section of the Xifeng
District's West Ring Road and the northern section of the Xifeng
District's East Ring Road with installation of associated pipes; and
(b) 
construction of three connection roads to the two bypass corridors of the
West Ring Road and the East Ring Road (connection road from the West
Ring Road to the Provincial Highway 202, a section of the Anding Xi
Road linking to the West Ring Road and a section of the Guxiang Road
linking to the East Ring Road) with installation of associated pipes .
2. 
Integrated Road Corridor:
(a) 
Improvement of three (3) selected main road corridors (Nan Bei Street,
Anding Dong Xi Road, West Ring Road), including road pavement,
traffic channelization, and lighting and greening, along with drainage and
sewage system improvements;
(b) 
rehabilitation of three (3) selected backstreets and small lanes for slow
traffic (Nanyua, Tianhe and Xifeng lanes); and
(c) 
carrying out, as part of the design of the integrated road corridor, the
Parking Action Plan, the Public Transport Action Plan; and the Traffic
Safety, Education and Enforcement Action Plan.
3. 
Drainage and Sewage:
(a) 
Construction of drainage and sewer mains for a section each of the
Xifeng District's West Ring Road, Anding East Road and Anding West
Road;
(b) 
rehabilitation of sewage collection pipes in Xifeng District; and
associated improvements of road pavement, street lighting and greening
along these roads; and
4. 
Waste Water Treatment Plant:
Construction of:
(a) 
a new waste water and treatment plant in the eastern area of Xifeng
District;
(b) 
a wastewater pumping station in the Xifeng District's northern area; and
(c) 
wastewater trunks and collectors associated to the investments in 4(a)
and (b) above.
Part H. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
Provision of technical assistance for:
(a) 
carrying out of a water resource study covering, among others, water
reuse, sub-basin water environment 
improvements and industrial
wastewater discharge licenses in Xifeng District that support the ongoing
investments of wastewater management;
(b) 
the improvement of the operation and maintenance capabilities of
QWSSC and Xifeng Municipality's Public Utility and Transportation
Bureaus in the provision of urban infrastructure services in the key
sectors of drainage and wastewater and urban road transport;
(c) 
capacity building and training for Qingyang Municipality's and Xifeng
District's agencies involved in Project implementation;
(d) 
strengthening of QWSSC's GIS-based system for the management of its
drainage and wastewater pipes networks; and
(e) 
Strengthening the Qingyang 
Municipality's 
capacity 
for Project
management and construction supervision of the Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangenenis
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project
Implementing Entity (Gansu), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal arount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and for any caps
and collars and interest during construction) shall be recovered over a
period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5)
years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing
Entity (Gansu) to moni:or and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accoidance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1)
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than March 15 and
September 15 each year, starting on March 15, 2013.
-8-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report by not later than
March 15 and September 15 in each year, commencing on March 15, 2013,
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. .
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and [1 of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, 1II, IV and V of Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured
-9-
under contracts awarded an the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the
Borrower (other than goods manufactured 
in the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the
Borrower).
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methocs may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding. In addition, the procedures to be
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People's Republic
of China on Au gust 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines:
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's country,
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which
may be advertised hii a provincial daily newspaper. Such
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and
prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of
advertisement 
in such newspaper and the deadline for
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of
evaluat:.ng the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in
detail in the bidding documents.
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders.
(iv) 
All bidders shall be reauired to provide security in an amount
-10-
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity (Gansu), as the case may be, in case of breach of contract
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the
required form and amount of such security.
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for
receipt of such bids.
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not
be required to be present at the bid opening.
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the
form of pass/fail requirements.
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the
Project Implementing Entity (Gansu), as the case may be.
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
submitted.
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank,
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xii) 
All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding
shall not take place without the Bank's prior written
concurre rce.
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or a free and
open access website and shall identify the name and offered
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and
summary scope of the awarded contract.
(xiv) 
The Project Implementing Entity (Gansu) shall have in place
provisions for bidders to protest.
(b) 
Shopping
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, con3ultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Selection based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(b) 
Quality Based Selection
(c) 
Single-Source Selection
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
- 12 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Works for Parts I.1, 
75,130,000 
80%
I.2.(a) and (b) and
I.3.(a) and (b) of the
Project
(2) 
Works for Part 1.4 of 
21,120,000 
80%
the Project
(3) 
Goods, consultants' 
3,500,000 
100%
services, and non-
consultant services,
and Training for Parts
I.2(c), and II of the
Project
(4) 
Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement and in
accordance with Section 2.07(b) of
the General Conditions
- 13 -
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(5) 
Premium for Interest 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to Section
Rate Cap or Interest 
2.07(c) of this Agreement and in
Rate Collar 
accordance with Section 4.05(c) of
the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up tc an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 may
be made for payments made within twelve (12) months prior to this date
but on or after March 1, 2012, for Eligible Expenditures; or
(b) 
for payments made under Category (2) for expenditures under Part 1.4 of
the Project until the Bank shall have received evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that:
(i) 
the QWSSC Agreement 
has been executed and delivered on
behalf of Xifeng District and QWSSC and is legally binding upon
the parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and
(ii) 
a legal opiiion satisfactory to the Bank from counsel acceptable
to the Bank has been received by the Bank confirming that the
QWSSC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
Xifeng District and QWSSC, and is legally binding on such
parties in accordance with its terms.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule'
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2017 
2.5.%
through December 15, 2036
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
- 15 -
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization
schedule for each such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
5. 
"Environmental Codes of Practice" means the detailed practices to address
construction related impacts of the Project implementation included in the EMP.
6. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" mean the Project Implementing
Entity's Environmental Management Plan, dated February 2, 2012, which sets
out, with respect to the Project, mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to be
implemented in Qingyang to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts, and
adverse impacts on physical cultural resources, of activities to be implemented
under the Project, to offset them, or to reduce them to acceptable levels, or to
enhance positive impacts; as well as administrative, monitoring and reporting
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.
7. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower covering the period
January 1 through December 31, which is also the fiscal year of QWSSC.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
- 17 -
9. 
"GIS" means geographic information system.
10. 
"Parking Action Plan" ireans the action plan to be prepared and carried out
pursuant to the provisions of Section F.(a)(i) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
11. 
The acronym "PIU" means any of the Project Implementation Units referred to in
Section I.A 1. (c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
12. 
The acronym "PLG" means the Project Leading Group referred to in Section I.A.
1. (a) of the Schedule to t1fe Project Agreement.
13. 
The acronym "PMO" means the Project Management Office referred to in
Section I.Al.(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
14. 
"Procurement Guidelines means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
15. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 26, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
16. 
"Project Implementing 'Entity" or "Gansu" means the Borrower's Gansu
Province, or any successor thereto.
17. 
"Public Transport Action Plan" means the action plan to be prepared and carried
out pursuant to the provisions of Section F.(a)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
18. 
"Qingyang Municipality" means Qingyang Municipality within Gansu, or any
successor thereto.
19. 
"QWSSC" means Qingyang Water Supply and Sewage Company, a company
owned by Xinfeng Disirict and established and operating pursuant to its
registration at Qingyang Administration of Industry and Commerce dated
November 8, 2011, or any successor thereto.
20. 
"QWSSC Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between Xifeng
District and QWSSC pursuant to Section I.E. of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and supplements to said agreement.
-18-
21. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and "RAP" means the Project Implementing Entity's
Resettlement Action Plan dated January 30, 2012, which set out the principles
and procedures to address impacts to land and other assets and the compensation
of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part I of the Project, as well
as administrative, monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance
with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such plan.
22. 
"Traffic Safety, Education and Enforcement Action Plan" means the action plan
to be prepared and carried out pursuant to the provisions of Section F.(a)(iii) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
23. 
"Training" means, for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
the reasonable cost, based on annual plans approved by the Borrower through
Gansu's Finance Department and the Bank, of travel, lodging and per diem for
trainees attending training, study tours, workshops and seminars and the cost of
delivering training (excluding consultants' fees), such as rental of training space
and training equipment and other logistical costs.
25. 
"Xifeng District" means the Xifeng District within the Qingyang Municipality or
any successor thereto.
