OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8176-RO
Loan Agreement
(Development Policy Loan with a Deferred Drawdown Option)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated	
ery & I ^ , 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8176-RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated J "/ e'ri^A^h.i	
, 2012, entered into between
ROMANIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II— LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion Euro (€1,000,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan").
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a stand-by fee on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum. The stand-by
fee shall accrue from the Effective Date to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The stand-
by fee shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
-2-
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.
	
2.07. (a)	
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the
principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
	
(b)	
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity
of such Withdrawal does not exceed eighteen (18) years from the
Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not
exceed thirty (30) years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other average
maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans
made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such Withdrawal
request); and (ii) such repayment provisions have been agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date of such
Withdrawal.
	
2.08. (a)	
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
-3-
(b)	
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c)	
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it,
will be carried out.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
-4-
5.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's Minister of Public Finance or
whomever the minister delegates to.
6.02. The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Public Finance
17 Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:	
Facsimile:
11239	
4021 312 6792
6.03. The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:	
Telex:	
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD	
248423(MCI) or	
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.	
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written.
ROMANIA
By
Authorized Represe tive
Name: Florin Georgescu
Title: Vice Prime Minister and
Minister of Public Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Francois Rantrua
Title: Country Manager
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I.	
Actions under the Program
Improve tax compliance, revenue collection and fiscal discipline, and reduce
administrative costs
The Borrower's Government has launched the modernization of tax
administration by: (a) reducing the number of local tax offices for small tax
payers to no more than 221 (i.e., by at least 39 percent) on the basis of
Government Decision No. 564/2011 and ANAF President Order No. 2180/ 2011
as amended; (b) expanding electronic tax filing by all legal entities to at least
80% on the basis of the Minister of Economy and Finance Order No. 858/2008 as
amended, the ANAF President's Order No. 2520/2010 and the Government's
Emergency Ordinance No. 117/2010 for the tax declarations available for e-
filing; and (c) approving the ANAF restructuring plan for 2012-2015 to further
reduce the number of local tax offices for small tax payers to 47 and expand
electronic tax filing for legal entities to 96 percent for tax declarations available
for e-filing, pursuant to the Government's Memorandum dated April 18, 2012.
2.	
The Borrower has enacted the 2012 Budget Law to strengthen fiscal discipline
and demonstrate commitment to fiscal consolidation in line with the 2012-2014
Fiscal Strategy.
The Borrower's Government has approved and submitted to the European
Commission the Convergence Program for 2012-2015 which incorporates: (a) a
medium-term fiscal framework consistent with the provisions of the Treaty on
Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union
(the Fiscal Compact); and (b) a financing plan consistent with the above
referenced fiscal framework.
Improve governance of energy State-owned enterprises and strengthen their fiscal
sustainability
4.	
The Borrower's Government has approved a memorandum No. DPES 172 dated
March 8, 2012 to carry out Hidroelectrica's electricity sales through competitive
market processes and to publish information on all bilateral contracts for
electricity sales.
The Borrower's Government has approved and submitted to the Borrower's
parliament a new Electricity Law that transposes the EU Third Package of
Energy Reforms and sets forth the operational and financial autonomy of the
energy regulator ANRE.
6.
The Borrower's Government has approved a roadmap for phasing out regulated
prices for electricity, pursuant to the Government's Memorandum dated March
16, 2012.
Improve fiscal sustainability of health sector
7.
The Borrower has approved under the Government's Decision No. 359/2012 the
exclusion of selected drugs compensated for indications outside the terms of their
marketing approval or for which there is no scientific medical evidence
supporting their indication, from the lists of compensated drugs and has issued a
Minister of Health Order No. 423 dated April 26, 2012, and NHIH Order No. 118
dated April 27, 2012, setting forth the conditions under which drugs in the basic
health package services can be reimbursed.
NHIH has implemented the 2012 National Hospital Master Bed Plan approved
by the Borrower's Government Decision No. 151/2011 and in accordance with
the Minister of Health Order No. 1577/2011.
9.	
The Borrower's Government has established the institutional framework for the
implementation of the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) pursuant to the
Borrower's Government Decision No. 351/2012.
Section H.	Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation
of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocations
(expressed in Euro)
(1) SingleWithdrawa
1,000,000,000
1 Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT
1,000,000,000
C.	
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds. If, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank
of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a
review of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework or of its progress in
carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower
to that effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be made of
the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has notified the
Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with: (1) the progress achieved by the
Borrower in carrying out the Program; and (2) the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
E.
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and
2.	
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
F.	
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
H.	
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
S
SCHEDULE2
Amortization Schedule
1.	
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February 1,
2024.
-10-
APPENDIX
Section I.	Definitions
"ANAF" or "National Agency for Fiscal Administration" means the Borrower's
national agency for fiscal administration, established as specialized body of the
public central administration with legal personality, subordinated to the Ministry
of Public Finance, and functioning according to the Government's Decision No.
109/2009 on the organization and functioning of the National Agency for Fiscal
Administration as subsequently amended, or any successor thereto.
"ANAF President's Order No. 2520 /2010" means the ANAF President order No.
2520 dated September 27, 2010, regarding the electronic filling of the tax
declarations for medium and large tax payers, as subsequently amended
(published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 670 dated October 1, 2010).
"ANRE" or `National Energy Regulatory Authority" means the Borrower's
national energy regulatory authority, established as autonomous public institution
of national interest, with legal personality, under the direct coordination of the
Borrower's Vice Prime Minister, and functioning according to the Government
Decision No. 1428/2009 on the organization and functioning of the National
Energy Regulatory Authority as. subsequently amended, or any successor thereto.
4.	
"Budget Law" means the Borrower's state budget law for 2012 No. 293 dated
December 21, 2011 (published in the Official Gazette no 914 dated December
22, 2011).
"Convergence Program for 2012-2015" means the document prepared by the
Borrower in accordance with EC Regulation no 1466/1997 of the European
Council on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the
surveillance and coordination of economics policies as amended by EC
Regulation no 1055/20005 of the European Council and the EU Regulation No.
1175/2011 of the European Parliament and the European.
6.	
"EU Third Package of Energy Reforms" means the two European Commission
directives concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity
(2009/72/EC) and gas (2009/73/EC) and three European Commission regulations
on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks (EC No.
715/2009), and the network for cross-border exchange of electricity (EC No.
714/2009), as well as the establishment of the Agency for the Cooperation of
Energy Regulators ACER (EC No. 713/2009) dated July 13, 2009.
-11-
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b)
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Item
112
Alcoholic beverages
121
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525
Radioactive and associated
materials
667
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
old ores and concentrates)
(c)	
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
- 12 -
(d)
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e)
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)	
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
"Electricity Law" means the Borrowers' law regarding the electricity and the
organization and functioning of the National Energy Regulatory Authority,
approved by the Government on March 16, 2012, and submitted to the
Parliament for approval.
9.
"Fiscal Strategy" means the Borrower's public policy document setting the fiscal
budgetary objectives and priorities, revenues and expenditures targets of the
general consolidated budget and of its component, as well as its projected
balance for a three years period, in line with the Borrower's Fiscal Responsibility
Law No. 69/2010, as amended.
10.
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
11.
"Government Decision No. 151/2011" means the Government's Decision No.
151 dated February 23, 2011, approving the National Hospital Master Bed Plan
(as defined hereinafter) for the period 2011 — 2013 (published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette No 155 dated March 3, 2011).
12.
"Government Decision No. 359/2012" means the Government Decision No. 359
dated April 18, 2012, amending the Government Decision No. 720/2008
regarding the approval of the list containing the international common names of
drugs for the insured persons, with or without personal contribution, based on
medical prescription, under the health insurance system (Published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette No. 280 dated April 27, 2012).
13.	
"Government Decision No. 564/2011" means the Government Decision No. 564
dated June 1, 2011, amending the Governmental Decision No. 109/2009
regarding the organization and functioning of the National Agency for Fiscal
- 13 -
Administration, (Published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 407 dated
June 9, 2011).
14.
"Government Emergency Ordinance No. 117 /2010" means the Borrower's
Emergency Ordinance No. 117 dated December 23, 2010, amending the Law No.
571/2003 regarding the fiscal code and setting selected fiscal and financial
measures (published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 891 dated December
30, 2010).
15.
"Hidroelectrica" means the national hydro power generating joint-stock
company established pursuant to Government Decision No. 627/2000 of the
Borrower, dated July 13, 2000, on the reorganization of the National Company
for Electricity.
16.
"Health Technology Assessment" means the systematic and multidisciplinary
analyses process of the new and existing medical technologies pursuant to
Government Decision No 351 dated April 18, 2012, and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette No. 272 April 24, 2012.
17.
"Minister of Health Order No. 1577/2011" means the Minister of Health Order
No. 1577 dated November 18, 2011, regarding the approval of the distribution by
county of the total number of beds, for 2012, from the public and private health
units, for which the health insurance house can conclude contracts for hospital
medical care service, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 832,
November 24, 2011.
18.
"Minister of Health No. 423 and NHIH President Order No. 118" means
respectively the Minister of Health Order No. 423 dated April 26, 2012 and the
NHIH President Order No. 118 dated April 27, 2012, amending the Minister of
Public Health and NHIH President Order No. 1301/500/2008, for the approval of
the therapeutic protocols for the prescription of drugs related to the international
common names provided in the list containing the international common names
of the drugs for the insured persons, with or without personal contribution, based
on medical prescription under the health insurance system approved through the
Government Decision no. 720/2008.
19.
"Minister of Economy and Finance Order No. 858/2008" means the Minister of
Economy and Finance Order No. 858 dated March 19, 2008, regarding the
electronic filling of the tax declarations, as subsequently amended, (published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 242 dated March 28, 2008).
20.	
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated May 17, 2012, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
- 14 -
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
21.
"NHIH" or "National Health Insurance House" means the Borrower's national
health insurance public entity established pursuant to Law no 95/2006 regarding
the health sector reform, as amended.
22.
"National Hospital Master Bed Plan" means the strategic document by which the
Ministry of Health established the maximum number of beds for which the local
NHIH can conclude contracts with public and private hospitals for hospital
medical care services delivery, pursuant to the Government's Decision No.
151/2011.
23.
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
24.
"Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and
Monetary Union" means the treaty by which the Member States of the European
Union agree to strengthen the economic pillar of the economic and monetary
union by adopting a set of rules intended to foster budgetary discipline through a
fiscal compact, to strengthen the coordination of their economic policies and to
improve the governance of the euro area, thereby supporting the achievement of
the European Union's objectives for sustainable growth, employment,
competitiveness and social cohesion, signed by the Borrower on March 2, 2012.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.	
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4.	
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
- 15 -
5.
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c)	
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6.
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
...	
(c)	
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a
•  report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7.	
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put
in support of the Program, other than to fmance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b)
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c)	
The term "Fixed Spread" is modified to read as follows:
"Fixed Spread" means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank's fixed spread
for the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a
percentage per annum; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the
Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (e), that is applicable to an
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a
- 16 -
Fixed Rate, the "Fixed Spread" means the Bank's fixed spread in effect
at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date
of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such
amount; (b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for
purposes of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, "Fixed
Spread" means the Bank's fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon
a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.
(d)
The definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as
follows:
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate
(if any), any stand-by fee, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee
for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable
Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
(e)
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as. follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
(f)	
The term "Variable Spread" is modified to read as follows:
"Variable Spread" means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
(1) the Bank's standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the
Reference Rate, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans
that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. In the
case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, "Variable
Spread" applies separately to each of such Currencies.
- 17 -
(g)
A new term "Withdrawal" is added to read as follows:
"Withdrawal" means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.
(h)
A new term "Withdrawal Date" is added to read as follows:
"Withdrawal Date" means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
Bank pays the Withdrawal.
M
