IOFICIAL
DCtIUMNTS
LOAN NUMBER 8138-MU
Loan Agreement
(Public Sector Performance - Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 20, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8138-MU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated April 20, 2012, entered into between REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing
on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and (b) the
Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and
the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal
to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided that upon
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, 
to an Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change
of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal or exceed
$20,000,000 shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and
of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
I to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
be carried out.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5. 02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6. 01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economic Development.
6. 02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MfNFIN 
4247 
(230) 213 6450
Port Louis 
EXTERN IW
6. 03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Washington D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
By:
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
The Borrower has issued a new organizational and staffing chart for NEF which shall
have been approved by MoSIEE, reflecting the new institutional structure of NEF, and
with separate departments for: a) child and family development; b) community
empowerment; c) placement and training; and d) monitoring and evaluation.
2. 
The Borrower has sought and obtained Cabinet approval of a memorandum giving details
of its proposal and action plan for the establishment of SRM.
3. 
The Borrower has sought and obtained Cabinet approval of a concept paper for
prevocational education reform, giving details of proposed changes to existing learning
and institutional arrangements, including extension of prevocational education to four
years, revision of curricula, introduction of teaching and learning methods to promote
retention, and acquisition of core basic skills and technical competencies.
4. 
The Borrower has established a joint public-private Business Facilitation Task Force,
giving it a mandate to review existing systems and processes, and streamline regulations,
governing trade and investments, with a view to removing bottlenecks and creating a
business-friendly environment.
5. 
The Borrower has sought and obtained Cabinet approval of a memorandum, giving
details of proposed modalities and action plan for the establishment of a comprehensive
and up-to-date Trade Portal.
6. 
The Borrower has, through MOFED, developed a draft policy paper on the proposed
establishment within its customs department of an appropriate internal appeals
mechanism that complies with the requirements of the Revised Kyoto Convention, giving
details of the proposed legal and institutional framework, and operating guidelines and
procedures, governing such a mechanism.
7. 
The Borrower has, through MCSAR, submitted to Cabinet an information paper, giving
details of plans to streamline Schemes of Service and expedite the process of review,
modification and consolidation of such Schemes of Service, based on adequate
consultations with civil service unions and other stakeholders, and reflecting the outcome
of such consultations.
8. 
The Borrower has sought and obtained Cabinet approval of a memorandum, giving
details of the revised mandate of OPSG to: a) monitor the overall performance of SOEs;
b) prepare quarterly reports; c) support line ministries in the preparation and
implementation of performance improvement plans; and d) supervise the pace of SOE
reforms as approved by Cabinet, reporting back to Cabinet with proposals for corrective
measures as needed.
-6-
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amount. -The Loan (except for the amount required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may
make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amount of the Loan to this
end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in USD)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
19,950,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
50,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the.
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank
by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; and
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2017 
3.85%
through August 15, 2029
On February 15, 2030 
3.75 %
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-8-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption
of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
1. 
"Cabinet" means the Borrower's cabinet of ministers.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
-10-
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the 
"International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010, with the modifications
set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"MCSAR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms.
6. 
"MOFED" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic Development.
7. 
"MoSIEE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Social Integration and Economic
Empowerment.
8. 
"NEF" means the National Empowerment Foundation, a not-for-profit public company
established in July 2008 to implement the Borrower's Empowerment Program and other
poverty-targeted programs.
9. 
"OPSG" means the Office of Public Sector Governance established within the
Borrower's Office of Prime Minister to provide leadership, coordination and cohesion for
the implementation and monitoring of public sector reform initiatives.
10. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve
the performance of the public sector in order to strengthen its ability to support and
empower the vulnerable and enhance economic competitiveness, and set forth or referred
to in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank, dated February 8, 2012, declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
11. 
"Revised Kyoto Convention" means the International Convention on the Simplification
and Harmonization of Customs Procedures, dated June 1999, adopted by the World
Customs 
Organization 
(WCO) 
Council, 
and 
which 
entered 
into 
force 
on
February 3, 2006.
12. 
"Scheme of Service" means a scheme of service pertaining to a public office in the
Borrower's civil service, giving details of the salary, qualifications, and duties and
responsibilities, of the office to which the scheme of service applies, and, where
appropriate, the mode of appointment.
13. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
14. 
"Social Register of Mauritius" or "SRM" means a social register designed to serve as the
basis for an integrated database for poverty-targeted programs, and to be used as a key
policy design and planning tool to allow for better coordination and more effective
poverty monitoring than would otherwise be the case among programs.
15. 
"SOE" means state-owned enterprise.
16. 
"Trade Portal" means an online tool in the form of a website designed to provide easy
access to information on relevant legal and regulatory trade measures for the benefit of
importers and exporters alike, thus facilitating exchange of information on all relevant
trade procedures and requirements among stakeholders.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
- 12 -
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
