1fiCIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8100- EG
Loan Agreement
(Additional Loan for Giza North Power Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated Apyt 
, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8100-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
r,\ 
, 2012, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT (-Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities
related to Part A of the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred forty million United States Dollars
(US$ 240,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principle amount of the loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 81 of the Appendix of the General Conditions
that apply to this Loan) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June I and December I in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of
handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect of the Loan.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause EEHC to carry out Part A. 1, and A. 2 (a) of the Project, through
CEPC and EETC, and cause GASCO to carry out Part A. 2(b) of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the EEHC Project
Agreement and the GASCO Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
This Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that all
necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.
-2-
4.02. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into between the
Borrower and EEHC.
(b) 
The GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into between the
Borrower and GASCO.
4.03. 
The Additional Legal Matters to be included in the Legal Opinion consist of the
following:
(a) 
The EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower and EEHC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and EEHC in
accordance with its terms.
(b) 
The GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower and GASCO and is legally binding upon the Borrower and GASCO in
accordance with its terms.
4.04. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement, or such later date established by the Bank in accordance with Section
9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation
of the Borrower and the Assistant to the Minister for International, Regional and Arab
Financing Organizations of the Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are
severally designated as representatives of the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of International Cooperation
8 Adly Street,
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
(202) 2391-281 5
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
(202) 2391-5167
-3-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Authorize 
ive
-4-
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to improving the security and efficiency of
electricity supply within the Borrower's territory by adding new generation capacity based on
efficient thermal power generation technology.
The Project consists of Part A of the Original Project as scaled up by this Additional
Loan. Part A of the Original Project (as amended) is as follows:
Part A: The Giza North Power Plant
I. 
Design, construction and commissioning of a combined cycle gas turbine power plant at
Giza North with a total installed capacity of 2,250 MW to be fueled by natural gas and
by light diesel oil on a back-up basis. The power plant design includes three identical
750-MW modules comprised of two 250-MW gas turbines (with an electricity generator
for each turbine), two multi-pressure heat-recovery steam generators, and one 250-MW
steam turbine driving an electricity generator. Auxiliary equipments include step-up
transformers, a switchyard, and other required auxiliary systems.
2. 
Construction of: (a) transmission lines to connect said power plant to the national
transmission grid; and (b) a gas pipeline to connect the said power plant to the gas
pipeline system to secure adequate supply of gas for sustainable operation of the power
plant.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A. I and Part A. 2(a) of the Project, the Borrower
shall make the proceeds of the Loan under Categories (1) and (2) available to the EEHC
under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and EEHC, under terms and
conditions mutually agreeable to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia, the following: (i) repayment of principal, and payment of interest, charges and
premium in accordance with Article II of this Agreement and Article III of the General
Conditions; (ii) payment of any other charges which may be required by the Borrower;
and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by EEHC ("EEHC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement").
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A 2(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan under Category (3) available to the GASCO under a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and GASCO, under terms and conditions mutually
agreeable to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following: (i)
repayment of principal, and payment of interest, charges and premium in accordance with
Article II of this Agreement and Article Ill of the General Conditions; (ii) payment of any
other charges which may be required by the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to
be borne by GASCO ("GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement").
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
the GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as mutually
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the GASCO Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any of their provisions.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to carry out the Project
pursuant to the provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants dated
October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
B. 
Safeguards.
1. 
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause each of the Project
Implementing Entities to:
(a) 
prepare and disclose, prior to the commencement of any works requiring land
acquisition under the Project, Resettlement Action Plans, acceptable to the Bank,
in accordance with the EEHC RPF and GASCO RPF;
-6-
(b) 
implement the Resettlement Action Plans, to the extent provided in the EEHC
RPF and GASCO RPF, respectively, prior to commencement of works requiring
land acquisition under the Project, including, unless otherwise agreed with the
Bank, payment in full of compensation to all affected people prior to
commencing of any related works. Except as mutually agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower, EEHC or GASCO shall not amend,
suspend or abrogate any of the provisions of the Resettlement Action Plans.
2. 
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause each of the Project
Implementing Entities to:
(a) 
prepare and disclose, prior to the commencement of any works under the
Project, Site-specific EMPs, acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the
EEHC ESIA and GASCO ESIA;
(b) 
carry out the Site-specific EMPs in accordance with the EEHC ESIA and
GASCO ESIA, as the case may be. Except as mutually agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower, EEHC or GASCO shall not amend,
suspend or abrogate any of the provisions of the Site-specific EMPs.
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall, cause the Project Implementing Entities to maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to have the Financial
Statements related to the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover
the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each
-7-
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the EEHC Project Agreement and the Schedule to the
GASCO Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may, through the Project Implementing Entities, withdraw the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this
Section, and such additional arrangements as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement
pursuant to such arrangements), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table
in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Withdrawal Schedule
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD)
(1) Goods for Part A. I of the 
150,000,000 
100%
Project
(2) Goods for Part A.2(a) of 
35,000,000 
100%
the Project
(3) Goods for Part A.2(b) of 
55,000,000 
100%
the Project
(4) 
Interest 
Rate 
Cap 
or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
240,000,000
-8-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
-9-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June I and December 1
Beginning June 1, 2019 
2.33%
through December 1, 2039
On June 1, 2040 
2.14%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
-10-
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-11-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; "Categories" means more than one such Category.
2. 
"CEPC" means the Cairo Electricity Production Company, an Egyptian joint stock company,
wholly owned by EEHC, and established and operating pursuant to Law No. 159 of 1981, or
any successor or successors thereof
3. "Co-financier" means the European Investment Bank (EIB), referred to in paragraph 15 of
the Appendix to the General Conditions.
4. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 
16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of one hundred twenty million Euro (E120,000,000) to be provided by
the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project.
5. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. The Cofinancing Agreement is expected to
be effective by not later than June 30, 2012.
6. 
-EEHC" means the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company established and operating
pursuant to Law No. 164 of 2000, or any successor or successors thereof.
7. 
"EEHC ESIA" means the Borrower's updated environmental and social impact assessment
for its Respective Part of the Project, disclosed in InfoShop on June 23, 2011, setting forth the
matters to be addressed in the site-specific EMP regarding mitigating, monitoring and
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of its Respective
Part of the Project to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to
the Bank in accordance with its policies.
8. "EEHC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and EEHC of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the EEHC Project Agreement.
9. 
"EEHC RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework for its Respective Part of
the Project, disclosed in Infoshop on June 23, 2011, setting forth the rules, procedures and
guidelines for the acquisition of land and/or other assets from persons affected by the Project
(if any), and/or the resettlement and rehabilitation of such persons (if any), and the
compensation thereof.
10. "EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EEHC pursuant to the provisions of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all
schedules to the EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
-12-
11. "EETC" means the Egyptian Electricity Transmission Company established and operating
pursuant to Law No. 159 of 1981 of the Borrower, or any successor or successors thereof.
12. "EMP" means Borrower's generic environmental management plan for each of Part A. 1, Part
A. 2(a) or Part A. 2(b) of the Project prepared in accordance with the EEHC ESIA, or the
GASCO ESIA, as the case may be, and disclosed in Infoshop on June 23, 2011, and June 28,
2011. "EMPs" means all such generic environmental management plans prepared pursuant to
the EEHC ESIA and the GASCO ESIA.
13. "GASCO" means the Egyptian Natural Gas Company, established in March 1997 pursuant
to Investment Law No. 230 of 1989 and amended by Law No. 8 of 1997, or any successor or
successors thereof.
14. "GASCO ESIA" means the Borrower's updated environmental and social impact assessment
for its Respective Part of the Project, disclosed in InfoShop on June 28, 2011, setting forth the
matters to be addressed in the site-specific EMP regarding mitigating, monitoring and
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of its Respective
Part of the Project to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to
the Bank in accordance with its policies.
15. "GASCO Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and GASCO of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the GASCO Project Agreement.
16. "GASCO RPF" means Borrower's resettlement policy framework for its Respective Part of
the Project, disclosed in Infoshop on June 28, 2011, setting forth the rules, procedures and
guidelines for the acquisition of land and/or other assets from persons affected by the Project
(if any), and/or the resettlement and rehabilitation of such persons (if any), and the
compensation thereof.
17. "GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and GASCO pursuant to the provisions of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all
schedules to the GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
18. "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
19. "Legal Opinion" means the legal opinion provided by the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.02 of the General Conditions.
20. "Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for a Giza North Power Project
between the Borrower and the Bank, dated November 4, 2010, as amended to the date of this
Agreement (Loan No 7895-EG).
21. "Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
-13-
22. "Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated October
10, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines, updated from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. "Project Implementing Entity" means either EEHC or GASCO. "Project Implementing
Entities" means both EEHC and GASCO
24. "Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the site-specific resettlement action plan, or
abbreviated resettlement action plan, as the case may be, to be prepared and adopted by the
Borrower, through a Project Implementing Entity, pursuant to paragraph I of Section 1. B. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, a program of
actions, measures and policies for compensation of persons affected by land acquisition,
including compensation arrangements, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular compliance
with its terms for each site; and "RAPs" means more than one such RAP.
25. "Site-Specific EMP" means a site-specific environmental management plan to be prepared by
the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, and
satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of works to be undertaken by the Borrower under the
Project defining details of measures to manage potential environmental risks and mitigate,
reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts associated with the implementation of
activities under each phase of the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring
and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular
feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the same may be amended and supplemented from
time to time with mutual agreement of the Bank and the Borrower; and "Site-specific EMPs"
refers to one such Site-specific EMP.
26. "Withdrawal Schedule" means the table of eligible expenditures in paragraph 2 of Section IV
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-14-
