OFFICIAL
I HOCUMS~T9
LOAN NUMBER 8120-MX
Loan Agreement
(Forests and Climate Change Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
V10 
A!5 
,201
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Mg, 
201 2 between United Mexican States
("Borrower"), as represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement (the SCF FIP Loan Agreement) of even date
herewith entered into between the Borrower and the World Bank, acting not in its
individual capacity but solely in its capacity as implementing entity of the Strategic
Climate Fund, the World Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in the amount
of sixteen million three hundred forty thousand Dollars ($16,340,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the SCF FTP Loan Agreement;
(B) 
by an agreement (the SCF FIP Trust Fund Grant Agreement) of even
date herewith entered into betwe.-n the United Mexican States acting as the Recipient,
NAFIN and CONAFOR, and the World Bank, acting not in its individual capacity but
solely in its capacity as implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund, the World
Bank has agreed to make a grant to the Recipient in the amount of twenty five million six
hundred sixty thousand Dollars ($25,660,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the SCF FIP Trust Fund Grant Agreement;
(C) 
by an agreement (the Project Agreement) of even date herewith entered
into between the Bank and CONAFOR, CONAFOR has agreed to implement the Project
and undertake the obligations set lbrth in the Project Agreement; and
(D) 
the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set
forth in the table in Section IV.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of
supporting the Project), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the
Borrower's income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred fifty million Dollars
($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("IBRD Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower's
representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs
the Bank, the Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director/a de
Organismos Financieros Internacionales of NAFIN or any person or persons
whom such representative shall designate in writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by :he Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Co iversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead )e calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 -:o this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower mz.y at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
-2-
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the.
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Va-iable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Bcrrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this. Agreement.
ARTICLE IHl -PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by CONAFOR in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the
Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon -:he provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreenment and the provisions of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The CONAFOR's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
-3-
(b) 
The Mexican Forest Legal Framework has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced so as to affect materially and
adversely the execution of the Project.
(c) 
NAFIN shall have failed to comply its obligations under the Mandato
Agreement for the IBRD Loan.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of, namely, that any of the events
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occur and continues for a period of
sixty days after notice of the pertinent event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Mandato Agreement for the IBRD Loan has been duly signed by the
parties thereto;
(b) 
The SCF FIP Loan Agreement has been signed and delivered by all the
parties to such agreement, and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness (other than the fulfillment of effectiveness of this
Agreement or of the SCF FIP Grant Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(c) 
The SCF FIP Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been signed and delivered
by all the parties to such agreement, and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness (o:her than the fulfillment of effectiveness of this
Agreement or of :he SCF FIP Loan Agreement) have been fulfilled; and
(d) 
The Project Agreement has been signed and delivered by all the parties
to such agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Maters consist of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by
Borrower counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicate that the Mandato
Agreement for the IBRD Loan, has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with the terms of the Mandato
Agreement for the IBRD Loan.
(b) 
NAFIN, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by
NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicate that the Mandato
Agreement for the IBRD Loan has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, NAFIN and is legally binding
-4-
upon NAFIN in accordance with the terms of the Mandato Agreement
for the IBRD Loan.
(c) 
CONAFOR, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by
CONAFOR counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicate that: (i) the
Mandato Agreement for the IBRD Loan has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, CONAFOR and is
legally binding upon CONAFOR in accordance with the terms of the
Mandato Agreement for the IBRD Loan, and (ii) the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, CONAFOR and is legally binding upon CONAFOR in
accordance with Its terms.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on July 31, 2013.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titvlar de la Unidad de Cridito Pblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be
(a) the Titular de la Unidad de Cridito P4blico of SHCP or any person or
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose, or
(b) NAFIN's Director of International Financial Institutions (Director de
Organismos Financieros internacionales).
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pfblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre III, Piso 3
Colonia Guadalupe Inn, 0 020
Distrito Federal
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-5-
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at W1tQyj0C 
(71lu 
d 
14A 
exioan .
as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED MEXI AN STATES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
uthorized Representative
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support rural communities in the territory of the
Borrower to sustainably manage their forests, build social organization, and generate
additional income from forest products and services including from REDD+.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Policy Design and Institutional Strengthening
1 .
Provision of technical assistance and financing of Operating Costs to: (i)
strengthen CONAFOR'. monitoring and evaluation systems by revamping
databases, 
strengthening 
CONAFOR's 
remote 
sensing 
and 
geographic
information capacities, and strengthening CONAFOR's technical capacity to
better measure the outcoraes of CONAFOR's investments in the field; (ii) design
and pilot a comprehensiv- REDD+ monitoring, reporting and verification system
by: (A) developing tools to monitor the environmental, social and economic
impacts of REDD+ Early Action Areas Subprojects; (B) analyzing community-
based monitoring techniq les, and (C) designing an impact evaluation strategy, all
for the activities to be carried out under Part 3.3 of the Project; and (iii) monitor
results and carry out strategic evaluations of the Forest Investment Plan.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and financing of Operating Costs to carry out
analytical work and workshops to improve public policies and public programs
on forest management and forest conservation issues by: (i) carrying out studies
and workshops to draw lessons from ongoing environmental services and
community forestry programs in the Borrower's territory, and propose
adjustments to CONAFOR Rules to achieve, inter alia, greater integration and
synergies amongst said environmental 
services and community forestry
programs; (ii) carrying oat studies related to policies and programs related to
forestry, agriculture, livestock, and other economic activities in rural landscapes
to achieve, inter alia, greeter integration and synergies amongst said policies and
programs in rural landsca:es; (iii) carrying out studies and workshops to design
innovative REDD+ institutional arrangements to pilot in REDD+ Early Action
Areas under Part 3 of the Project; (iv) carrying out workshops, communication
and outreach activities to facilitate the successful implementation of the Project
(including on social and environmental safeguards issues); (v) disseminating
information and carrying out consultations with indigenous peoples and other
forest communities on FEDD+, sustainable forest management, and related
issues; (vi) carrying out workshops for indigenous peoples, local communities
and other stakeholders involved in the management of forest landscapes in
REDD+ Early Action Areas under Part 3 of the Project; and (vii) carrying out
local and international 
learning activities, including South-South learning
-7-
initiatives, and disseminating and exchanging lessons and experiences on
REDD+ and on the impl-mentation of the Forest Investment Plan.
3. 
Provision of goods and lechnical assistance (including training) and financing of
Operating Costs to: (i) modernize CONAFOR's administration and advisory
capacity, and promote the sharing of good practices and technologies; (ii) support
the overall management of the Project, including the carrying out of
coordination, reporting, fiduciary and safeguards related activities; and (iii) foster
cross-sector coordination between CONAFOR and other agencies of the
Borrower involved in rural development at the federal level (such as, inter alia,
SEMARNAT and SAGARPA) by creating joint databases with SAGARPA and
SEMARNAT, and streamlining the administrative framework for community-
based forest managemen-.
4. 
Provision of technical assistance (including training) and financing of Operating
Costs to: (i) train a roster (padrdn) of qualified professionals to be hired by
Communities and/or Ejidos (following the procedures set forth in Section III of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement) to advise said Communities and/or Ejidos
in the preparation and implementation of the activities under Parts 2 and 3.3 of
the Project; and (ii) design and implement a service provider quality accreditation
and certification scheme for the qualified professionals referred in Part 1.4.(i) of
the Project.
Part 2: Consolidation of CONAFOR Priority Community-Based Programs at the
National Level
Provision of support to Communities and/or Ejidos to help them combine
sustainable forest management with socio-economic development, enhance the
contribution of forests to climate change mitigation and adaptation, and generate
additional income opportunities for Communities and/or Ejidos, making
sustainable management more economically attractive, through:
Silvicultura Comunitaria (Programa de Desarrollo Forestal Comunitario)
(i) the carrying out of activities to promote, strengthen, and consolidate
community institutions and local development processes for the collective and
sustainable management of forest resources including, inter alia: (a) the carrying
out of participatory rural appraisals; (b) the elaboration of land-use zoning plans
(ordenamientos territoriales comunitarios); (c) 
the 
development 
and
strengthening of community statutes to regulate the use of collective forest
resources; (d) the carrying out of community-to-community seminars and other
knowledge sharing activities among Communities and/or Ejidos at different
levels of organization; (e) the provision of support (in a manner acceptable to the
Bank) to participatory community surveillance committees to ensure compliance
with management plans, community statutes, and social and environmental
safeguards; and (f) the carrying out of workshops and training courses for
-8-
Community and/or Ejido members and staff of community forestry enterprises on
technical 
aspects 
of forest 
management, 
silviculture, 
environmental
sustainability, business administration, and transformation and marketing of
forest products and services.
Prodefor (Programa de Desarrollo Forestal)
(ii) the carrying out of activities to support forest Communities and/or Ejidos
strengthen their capacities to manage productive forests sustainably including,
inter alia: (a) studies to prepare environmental impact assessments and forest
management plans based on official regulations needed to obtain the Borrower's
permits for extraction of timber and non-timber forest products; (b) silvicultural
activities aimed at ensuring forest regeneration and improvement of forest
productivity and carbon sequestration; (c) activities to improve and modernize
forestry technologies used by community forestry enterprises to increase their
efficiency, competitiveness and add value to their timber and non-timber
products; and (d) technical assistance activities to assess compliance with
environmental and social safeguards, and to conduct evaluations to certify the
environmental and social sustainability of forestry interventions based on
national and international standards.
Cadenas Productivas (Programa de Integraci6n de Cadenas Productivas)
(iii) the carrying out of activities to promote and strengthen forest value chains
established by community forest enterprises to add value to their timber and non
timber forest products, expand access to markets, and improve competitiveness
including, inter alia: (a) legal registration of community forest enterprises and
inter-community value chains; (b) studies to prepare strategic business plans,
process engineering, and investment feasibility assessments; (c) purchasing of
processing equipment tc integrate community forest enterprises into value
chains; (d) purchasing of office equipment for community forestry enterprises;
and (e) activities to improve marketing of timber and non timber forest products
and services, and to strengthen the growth of community forestry enterprises.
PSAB (Programa de Servicios Ambientales del Bosque)
(iv) the provision of payments to Communities and/or Ejidos in exchange for the
provision of environmental services which benefit people other than the land
users in the PSAB Areas, which services include, inter alia: (a) services
generated by forest ecosystems in the provision of water and the prevention of
disasters; (b) services generated by forest ecosystems in the conservation of
biodiversity; and (c) services generated by forest ecosystems in the capture of
carbon.
Programas Especiales
(v) the provision of technical assistance and payments to Communities and/or
Ejidos for: (a) the carrying out of activities to restore ecosystems in degraded
areas including, inter alia, reforestation, soil conservation, agroforestry, and
-9-
forest fire prevention activities; and (b) the carrying out of activities to restore
and conserve ecosystems in coastal watersheds and other areas with high
deforestation rates including, inter alia, forest conservation, sustainable forest
management, reforestation, agroforestry, and forest fire prevention activities.
Part 3: Innovation for REDD+ in REDD+ Early Action Areas
1 .
Provision of technical assistance and financing of Operating Costs to design
innovative REDD+ approaches to be piloted in REDD+ Early Action Areas
under Parts 3.2 and 3.3 of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) the alignment of
forestry, agriculture and livestock policies and incentive programs managed by
CONAFOR and SAGAFTA and improvement of the overall carbon balance in
rural landscapes in the Borrower's territory; (ii) the tailoring or customization of
CONAFOR's forestry incentive programs and adjustment of the eligibility
criteria and procedures of said programs to promote REDD+ practices at the
community and landscape level; (iii) the supporting of the emergence of new
local governance agents such as local technical agents (ATLs, as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement) and local development agents (ADLs, as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement) allowing for a broader spatial integration at the
municipal, watershed or landscape level; and (iv) the development of specific
operational rules for the i:nplementation of Part 3.3 of the Project.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance (including training), goods and financing of
Operating Costs to: (i) strengthen the capacities of ADLs and ATLs, (ii) assist
Communities and/or Ejidos and other local stakeholders in the REDD+ Early
Action Areas to identify and implement innovative REDD+ Early Action
Subprojects; (iii) establish coordination mechanisms to effectively develop and
implement participatory regional land-use plans and identify landscape level
strategies for REDD+; (iv) enable integrated cross-sector action in support of
sustainable economic activities in forest landscapes; (v) assist Communities
and/or Ejidos and Ejidos to implement REDD+ Early Action Subprojects; (vi)
coordinate efforts for monitoring and evaluation of REDD+ activities; and (vii)
identify and disseminate lessons learned in REDD+ Early Action Areas for
potential future scaling up of REDD+ landscape initiatives to other regions in the
Borrower's territory.
3. 
Provision of financing to Communities and/or Ejidos to carry out REDD+ Early
Action Areas Subprojects.
-10-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementatioin Arraneements
A. 
Mandato Agreement for the IBRD Loan
1. 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Mandato Agreement
for the IBRD Loan) with NAFIN and CONAFOR, satisfactory to the Bank,
whereby:
(a) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the
Borrower vis-6-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees
to maintain and operate the designated account referred to in the
additional instructions cited in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule 2, all of
this in compliance with the terms of this Agreement;
(b) 
CONAFOR agrees to carry out the Project;
(c) 
the Borrower agrees to cause CONAFOR to, and NAFIN agrees to, abide
by, and carry out the Project in accordance with, the provisions of this
Agreement and the provisions of the Project Agreement, including the
Safeguards Documents, the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines, 
and the
Operational Manual;
(d) 
the Borrower has right to, in case of fraud or corruption practices (as
defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the early
termination of the Mandato Agreement for the IBRD Loan, or
temporarily suspend its effects, or, if applicable, require the restitution of
funds transferred ro NAFIN under the Mandato Agreement for the IBRD
Loan; and
(e) 
CONAFOR and NAFIN agree to cooperate fully with each other to
ensure that NAFIN and CONAFOR are able to comply with all of
NAFIN's and CONAFOR's obligations referred to in this Section and in
the Project Agreement, respectively.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Mandato Agreement for the IBRD Loan in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend,
-11-
terminate, waive or fail -:0 enforce any provision of the Mandato Agreement for
the IBRD Loan. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Mandato
Agreement for the IBRI) Loan and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause CONAFOR to ensure, that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines. Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall cause
CONAFOR to cause NA FIN, as trustee (mandataria) of the Forest Fund to agree
by not later than December 16, 2011, -to comply with the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
I. 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFOR to ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the Safeguards Documents and the provisions of Section I.J of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall caus , CONAFOR to ensure that the terms of reference for
any consultancies under the Project including any consultancy related to plans,
strategies and elaboration of response options and measures, or the terms of
reference for any technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall incorporate
the requirements of the Bank safeguard policies as applied to the advice
conveyed through such consultancies and technical assistance.
D. 
General Implementation
For purposes of carrying out Part 1.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
CONAFOR to cause SEMARNAT or SAGARPA, as the case might be, to
comply with the provisi:ns of: (i) the SEMARNAT Agreement; and (ii) the
SAGARPA Agreement. For purposes of carrying out the activities under Part 3.2
of the Project that will be carried out through CONABIO, the Borrower shall
cause CONAFOR to caus, the parties to the CONABIO Trust to comply with the
provisions of the CONABIO Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause CONAFOR to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Project Indicators. Each
-12-
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than sixty days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
B. 
Financial Management., Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause CONAFOR and NAFIN to, maintain or
cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause CONAFOR to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after
the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
3. 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFOR to have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower, commencng with the fiscal year in which the Project becomes
effective. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section fI. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting Services and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth in Section III of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. The Borrower may withd.aw the proceeds of the IBRD Loan in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions).
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A.1
-13-
immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided
under this Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures.
3. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the
Loan (Category), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and
the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
30,000,000 
100%
services, consultants' services an I
Operating Costs for Parts 1.1, 1.2.
and 1.3 of the Project
(2) PSAB Payments; Programas 
319,125,000 
100%
Especiales Payments; and Goods,
works, non-consulting services,
consultants' services and
Operating Costs for Parts 2(i),
2(ii), and 2(iii) of the Project
(3) Good, works, non-consulting 
0 
100%
services, consultants' services and
Operating Costs for Parts 1.4, 3.1
and 3.2 of the Project
(4) Goods, works, non-consulting 
0 
100%
services, consultants' services and
Operating Costs for Part 3.3 of the
Project
(5) Front-end Fee 
875,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(6) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
350,000,000
-14-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after January 1, 2012 but in no case made more than twelve (12) months
prior to the date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures;
(b) 
under Categorie!s (2) and (4) unless additional procurement, financial
management, social, and communication specialists in numbers and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, have been hired
by CONAFOR to support the implementation of the Project, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) 
under Category (4) unless the Guidelines for REDD+ Early Action Areas
Subprojects have been issued.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause NAFIN not to submit withdrawal applications under
Category (1) to finance activities under Part 3.2 of the Project implemented by
CONABIO pursuant to the CONABIO Agreement unless the CONABIO
Agreement has been entered into as referred in Section I.C.3 of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
3. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2017.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on November
15, 2024.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. "ADL" means a local c.evelopment agent (agente de desarrollo local), which
may be a local NGOs or civil society organization to be selected pursuant to the
provisions of Section III of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which will
provide technical assistaice to Communities and/or Ejidos under Part 3.2 of the
Project.
2. 
"ADL Agreement" means any of the agreements referred in Section I.C.5 of the
Schedule to the Project A greement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. "ATL" means local technical agent (agente tcnico local), i.e., any of the local
public agencies with a mandate in integrated rural development, including inter-
municipal associations (asociaciones de municipios), which will provide support
to ADL and Communities and/or Ejidos under Part 3.2 of the Project
5. 
"ATL Agreement" means any of the agreements referred in Section I.C.4 of the
Schedule to the Project A greement.
6. "Cadenas Productivas Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section E.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
7. "Cadenas Productivas Subproject" means a subproject to be carried out by a
Community and/or Ejido and consisting of any of the activities listed in Part
2(iii) of the Project, which subproject is eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the IBRD Loan, the SCF FIP Loan, and the SCF FIP Trust Fund Grant in
accordance with the criteria and other requirements set forth in the Operational
Manual and the CONAFCR Rules.
8. 
"Category" means, in the context of this Agreement, a category set forth in the
table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"CDI" means Comisi6n Nacional para el Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indigenas,
the Borrower's National Commission for the Development of Indigenous
Peoples, a decentralized public agency of the Borrower, with its own legal
personality, created pursuant to the Borrower's Law of the National Commission
for the Development of Indigenous Peoples, published in the Official Gazette on
May 23, 2003 (as updated through June 23, 2011).
-17-
10. "Collaboration Agreements" means any of the agreements to be entered into
pursuant to Sections I.C.1, I.C.2, I.C.3, I.C.4, and I.C.5 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
11. "Community" means any population and land tenancy unit (comunidad), with its
own legal personality, governed by Title III, Chapter V of the Borrower's
Agrarian Law (Ley Agraria), published in the Official Gazette on February 26,
1992 (as updated through June 22, 2011), or a legally established association of
Communities, and composed mostly of indigenous peoples represented by duly
elected Community officials, which meets the criteria and other requirements set
forth in the Operational Manual to participate in the Project.
12. "Collaborating Entity" means any of the following entities that collaborate with
CONAFOR for the implementation of the Project: SEMARNAT, SAGARPA,
NAFIN (in its capacity as financial agent for the IBRD Loan, the SCF FIP Loan,
the SCF FIP Grant, as trustee (mandataria) of the Forest Fund pursuant to the
Forest Fund Agreement, and as trustee of the CONABIO Trust), ATLs, ADLs,
CONEVAL, CDI, INM-UJERES and any other entity that may be later added to
support CONAFOR in the implementation of the Project with the agreement of
the Bank.
13. "CONABIO" means Comisi6n Nacional Intersecretarialpara el Conocimiento y
Uso de la Biodiversidad, the Borrower's National Commission for Biodiversity
Knowledge and Use, an inter-ministerial commission created by Presidential
Decree, dated March 13, 1992 (as amended by subsequent Presidential Decree,
dated November 11, 1994).
14. "CONABIO Agreement" means the agreements and/ or arrangements referred in
Section I.C.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
15. "CONABIO's Trust" means the biodiversity trust fund (Fideicomiso Fondo para
la Biodiversidad) established pursuant to a trust agreement dated May 18, 1993
entered between various individual grantors and NAFIN, establishing the trust
(as amended by subsequent agreements) and designating NAFIN as trustee
thereof in support of CONABIO's initiatives in the field of biodiversity
conservation.
16. "CONAFOR" means Comisi6n Nacional Forestal, the Borrower's national
forestry commission created by a Borrower's Presidential Decree published in
the Official Gazette on April 4, 2001.
17. "CONAFOR's Legislation" means the set of norms that have created CONAFOR
and given CONAFOR the powers and attributions that allow CONAFOR to carry
out this Project including, inter alia, the Mexican Forestry Law, the Borrower's
-18-
Presidential Decree published in the Official Gazette on April 4, 2001, and the
bylaws (estatuto org&!ico de CONAFOR) 
dated June 7, 2001 issued by
CONAFOR's board.
18. "CONAFOR Rules" means the following set of rules, guidelines and procedures
issued by the Borrower (through SEMARNAT and CONAFOR, as the case may
be) for the implementation of the CONAFOR activities partially financed under
Parts 2 and 3.3 of the Project: (i) Reglas de Operaci6n del Programa ProArbol
2011 issued by the Borrower, through SEMARNAT and published in the Official
Gazette on December 29, 2010, (ii) the Lineamientos 2011 para Otorgar Apoyos
para el Desarrollo Fores tal Comunitario, el Desarrollo de la Cadena Productiva
Forestal y el Saneamiento Forestal issued by CONAFOR on December 31,
2010, (iii) the Lineamientos del Programa Especial Cuencas Costeras en el
Estado de Jalisco, issued by CONAFOR on October 27, 2011, (iv) the
Lineamientos de Operac.dn para el Programa Especial para la Restauraci6n de
las Microcuencas en Zoras Prioritarias: Lerma Chapala (Michoacdn y Jalisco),
Chichinautzin (Morelos, Distrito Federal y Estado de Mixico), Cofre de Perote
(Puebla y Veracruz), Nevado de Toluca (Estado de Mixico), Izta-Popo (Puebla,
Estado de Mixico y Morelos), y Pico de Orizaba (Puebla, Veracruz), issued by
CONAFOR on June 8, 2011, (v) the Lineamientos de Operaci6n para el
Programa Especial par7 la Restauracidn de las Cuencas de los Lagos de
Pctzcuaro y Zirahuin, Michoacin, issued by CONAFOR on April 11, 2011, (vi)
the Lineamientos de Ope;aci6n para el Programa Especial para la Restauraci6n
de las Microcuencas en Zonas Prioritarias del Sistema Cutzamala (Michoac6n y
Estado de Mixico) y de la Marquesa (Estado de Mixico y Distrito Federal),
issued by CONAFOR on April 11, 2011, and (vii) the Guidelines for REDD+
Early Action Areas Subprojects; all these set of rules, guidelines and procedures
as they may be amended, from time to time with the agreement of the Bank, for
purposes of the Project.
19. "CONEVAL" means Consejo Nacional de Evaluacidn de la Politica de
Desarrollo Social, the Borrower's National Council for the Evaluation of the
Social Development Policies, a decentralized public agency of the Borrower,
regulated under the Borrower's General Law for Social Development, published
in the Official Gazette on January 20, 2004.
20. "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
21. "Contrato de Apoyo Financiero No Reembolsable" means the agreement referred
in Section I. A. I of Sched.ile 2 to the SCF FIP Grant Agreement.
22. "Ejido" means any population and land tenancy unit, with its own legal
personality, governed by 7itle III, Chapters I-IV of the Borrower's Agrarian Law
-19-
(Ley Agraria), published in the Official Gazette on February 26, 1992 (as
updated through June 22, 2011), or a legally established association of Ejidos,
which meets the criteria and other requirements set forth in the Operational
Manual to participate in the Project.
23. "Environmental Manag,ment Framework" means the set of procedures and
measures prepared by CONAFOR and acceptable to the Bank, to be followed for
the adequate 
environmental 
management of the 
Project, published 
in
CONAFOR's website on October 31, 2011 and on November 16, 2011, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
24. "Environmental 
Services" means the environmental services provided by
Comunities and/or Ejidcs which benefit people other than the land users in the
PSAB Areas referred in Part 2(iv) of the Project.
25. "Financial Managemen: 
Unit" means the financial management unit of
CONAFOR referred in Section I.A.1(iii) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
26. "Forest Fund" means the fund managed by NAFIN, as trustee (mandatario) of
the Forest Fund, where funds for the financing of the Project are held and
administered by NAFIN pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Fund
Agreement.
27. "Forest Fund Agreemen?" means the agreement (Contrato de Mandato) dated
July 10, 2003 between CONAFOR and NAFIN whereby CONAFOR instructs
NAFIN to administer and use the funds that CONAFOR will provide to NAFIN,
for the eventual financing of selected activities of CONAFOR, including the
possible financing of Subprojects, PSAB Contract Payments, and Programas
Especiales Payments, as said agreement may be amended from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank.
28. "Forest Investment Plan" means the Borrower's plan, acceptable to the Bank, of
priority interventions and mitigation measures to address the causes of
deforestation and degradation in the Borrower's territory approved by the SCF
FIP subcommittee on Oclober 31, 2011, as said plan may be amended from time
to time with the agreemer.t of the Bank.
29. "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Co iditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
30. "Guidelines for REDD+ Early Action Areas Subprojects" means the set of
guidelines, eligibility criteria, requirements and procedures developed under Part
3.1(iv) of the Project and to be used for the implementation of Part 3.3 of the
-20-
Project, as said set of rules, criteria, requirements and procedures may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
31. "Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means the framework acceptable to
the Bank, to address indigenous peoples aspects during the implementation of the
Project published in CONAFOR's website on November 29, 2011, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
32. "INMUJERES" means Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres, the Borrower's agency
for women's affairs, a decentralized public agency of the Borrower with its own
legal personality created pursuant to the Borrower's Law of the National
Women's Institute published in the Official Gazette on January 12, 2001.
33. "Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land
under the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income
source or means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location); or (b) right, title or interest in any house,
land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
34. "Mandato Agreement fo: the IBRD Loan" means the contract referred to in
Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement which terms and conditions include,
inter alia, the obligation cf NAFIN to act as financial agent for the Borrower, the
obligation of the Borrower to make the proceeds of the Loan available to
CONAFOR, and the obligation of CONAFOR to implement the Project.
35. "Mandato Agreement for the SCF FTP Loan" means the contract referred to in
Section L.A of Schedule 2 to the SCF FIP Loan Agreement which terms and
conditions include, inter alia, the obligation of NAFIN to act as financial agent
for the Borrower, the obligation of the Borrower to make the proceeds of the SCF
FIP Loan available to CONAFOR, and the obligation of CONAFOR to
implement the Project.
36. "Mexican Forest Legal Framework" means the Borrower's legal framework for
the forest sector including (i) the Mexican general forest law (Ley General de
Desarrollo Forestal Sustentable), published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on February 25, 2003 (as amended through November 16, 2011), (ii) the
implementing regulations of the Mexican forest law (including, but not limited
to, the Reglamento de la Ley General de Desarrollo Forestal Sustentable), (iii)
the Mexican law for ecological balance (Ley de Equilibrio Ecol6gico y
Proteccidn del Ambiente), published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
January 28, 1988 (as amended through August 30, 2011), (iv) the implementing
-21-
regulation the Mexican law for ecological balance (the Reglamento de la Ley de
Equilibrio Ecol6gico y Protecci6n del Ambiente en Materia de Evaluaci6n del
Impacto Ambiental, published in the Official Gazette on May 30, 2000), and (v)
the internal regulations of SEMARNAT (Reglamento Interior de SEMARNA7)
published in the Official Gazette on January 21, 2003 (as amended through
August 24, 2009).
37. "NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, SN C., a Mexican development bank
serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan.
38. "Official Gazette" means Diario Oficial de la Federacidn, the Borrower's
official Gazette.
39. "Operating Costs" means the reasonable minor incremental operating expenses
incurred by CONAFOR., on account of Project implementation, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation, including minor costs of office operation and
maintenance, and travel and per diem, but excluding salaries of CONAFOR
officials and public servants of the Borrower's civil service.
40. "Operational Manual" means the manual for the implementation of the Project
dated December 20, 2011 referred in Section I.F of the Project Agreement.
41. "Operations Committee" means the committee referred in Section I.A.1(ii) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
42. "Project Indicators" means the indicators to measure the performance of the
Project detailed in the Operational Manual.
43. "Procurement Guidelines' means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
44. "Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 29, 201 1 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
45. "Prodefor Agreement"means any of the agreements referred to in Section E.2 of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
46. "Prodefor Subproject" m-ans a subproject to be carried out by a Community
and/or Ejido and consisting of any of the activities listed in Part 2(ii) of the
Project, which subproject is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
IBRD Loan, the SCF FIP Loan, and the SCF FIP Grant in accordance with the
-22-
criteria and other requirements set forth in the Operational Manual and the
CONAFOR Rules.
47. "Project Implementing Entity" means CONAFOR.
48. "Programas Especiales Agreement" means any contract between CONAFOR
and a Community or Ejido which meets the environmental, social and other
requirements of the CONAFOR Rules, and includes the obligation of the
Community and/or Ejidc to carry out a set of activities among those described
under Part 2(v) of the Project, and referred to in Section E.5 of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
49. "Programas Especiales Payments" means the payments made by CONAFOR to
a Community or Ejido pursuant to the terms of the relevant Programas
Especiales Agreement which meets the environmental, social and other
requirements of the CONAFOR Rules for financing out of the proceeds of the
IBRD Loan, said payments to finance the cost of the activities to be carried out
by the Community and/or Ejido under the relevant Subproject, and the
opportunity cost of the foregone activity in the area where the Subproject will be
carried out.
50. "Programas Especiales Subproject" means a subproject to be carried out by a
Community and/or Ejido and consisting of any of the activities listed in Part 2(v)
of the Project, which subproject is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the IBRD Loan in accordance with the criteria and other requirements set forth in
the Operational Manual and the CONAFOR Rules.
51. "Project Agreement" means the agreement referred to in the whereas clause (C)
of this Agreement.
52. "PSAB Agreement" means any contract between CONAFOR to a Community or
Ejido under Part 2(iv) of the Project, for the provision of Environmental Services,
or a Community for the provision of Environmental Services which meet the
environmental, social and other requirements of the PSAB Rules, and referred to
in Section E.4 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
53. "PSAB Area" means any area which has been selected given its environmental,
hydrological or biodiversity value for the financing of Environmental Services
generated in such area, as said eligibility criteria is set forth in the PSAB Rules.
54. "PSAB Payments" means the payments made by CONAFOR to a Community or
Ejido pursuant to the terms of the relevant PSAB Agreement, which meets the
environmental, social and other requirements of the CONAFOR Rules for
financing out of the proceeds of the IBRD Loan, the SCF FIP Loan, and the SCF
FIP Grant.
-23-
55. "REDD+" means reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation
plus conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest
carbon stocks.
56. "REDD+ Early Action Areas" means any of the pilot areas where REDD+ Early
Action Areas Subprojects will be carried out, as said areas are identified and
selected by CONAFOR in accordance with the Guidelines for REDD+ Early
Action Areas Subprojecis, and any other area as CONAFOR may propose and
the Bank may agree.
57. "REDD+ Early Action Areas Subproject" means a subproject for activities for
reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation such as , inter alia,
sustainable 
forest 
management, 
protection 
of environmental 
services,
enhancement of carbon stocks in forest landscapes, agroforestry, sustainable use
of non timber products, and promotion of alternative low carbon sustainable
community-based activit-es, all of this to be carried out under Part 3.3 of the
Project, in REDD+ Early Action Areas selected by CONAFOR in accordance
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Guidelines for REDD+ Early
Action Areas Subprojects.
58. "REDD+ Early Action Areas Agreement" means any agreement to be entered
between a Community and/or Ejido and CONAFOR for the financing of a
REDD+ Early Action A:-eas Subproject and referred to in Section E.6 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
59. "Resettlement Process Framework" means the framework, acceptable to the
Bank, published in CONAFOR's website on November 17, 2011, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
60. "Safeguard Document" ireans the Environmental Management Framework, the
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and/or the Resettlement Process
Framework.
61. "SAGARPA" means Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural,
Pesca y Alimentacidn, the Borrower's Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock,
Rural Development, Fisheries and Food.
62. "SAGARPA Agreement" means the agreement referred in Section I.C.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement dated November 9, 2011.
63. "SCF FIP Grant" or "Grart" means the grant made available by the Bank, acting
not in its own capacity but solely in its capacity as implementing agency of the
Strategic Climate Fund, to the Recipient pursuant to the terms of the SCF FIP
Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
-24-
64. "SCF FIP Trust Fund Grant Agreement" means the agreement, of even date
herewith, between the United Mexican States, as recipient, and the World Bank,
the latter acting not ir. its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as
implementing entity of tne Strategic Climate Fund.
65. "SCF FIP Loan" means the loan made available by the Bank, acting not in its
own capacity but solely in its capacity as implementing agency of the Strategic
Climate Fund to the Borrower pursuant to the terms of the SCF FIP Loan
Agreement.
66. "SCF FIP Loan Agreement" means the agreement, of even date herewith,
between the Borrower and the Bank, the latter, acting not in its individual
capacity but solely in its capacity as implementing entity of the Strategic Climate
Fund, providing for the partial financing of the Project.
67. "SEMARNAT" means Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, the
Borrower's Secretariat for Environment and Natural Resources.
68. "SEMARNAT Agreement" means the agreement referred in Section I.C.1 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement dated November 7, 2011.
69. "SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.
70. "SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito P blico, the Borrower's
Secretariat of Finance ard Public Credit.
71. "Silvicultura Comunitaria Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to
in Section E.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
72. "Silvicultura Comunitar!a Subproject" means a subproject to be carried out by a
Community and/or Ejido and consisting of any of the activities listed in Part 2(i)
of the Project, which subproject is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the IBRD Loan, the SC- FIP Loan, and the SCF FIP Grant in accordance with
the criteria and other requirements set forth in the Operational Manual and the
CONAFOR Rules.
73. "Steering Committee" means the committee referred in Section I.A.l(i) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
74. "Subprojects" means thc set of activities to be carried out by a Community or
Ejido under Parts 2 and 3.3 of the Project.
-25-
