IDOCUM ttlTS
LOAN NUMBER 8188-ID
Loan Agreement
(Sustainable Management of Agricultural Research and
Technology Dissemination Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
September 
.
, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8188-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
September 
1, 
2012, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreem,nt.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed i:o them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower. on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars
($80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower fcr each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all cr any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Bo:Tower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March I and Seplember 1 in each year.
-2-
2 06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or un-withdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Cond:tions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Agriculture
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Firance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin No. I Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
DJMLN-IA 
62-21-381-2859
Jakarta 
44319 DEPKEU-IA
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States cf America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Robert Pakpahan
Title: 
Expert Staff of the MOF
on State Revenue
With Full Mandate
as DG of Debt Management
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
/
Authorized Representative
Name: 
'Jc'~
Title: 
Actbfl5 C041t 
9, ctoI-,
TCo
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the institutional capacity and
performance of the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development to
develop and disseminate relevant and demand-driven innovative technologies, meeting
the needs of producers and the agri-food system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A. 
Development and Management of Human Resources
1. 
Scientific training
(a) 
Provision of overseas degree training to researchers and other
staff in fields relevant to the work of the Assessment Institutes
for Agriculture Technology, the Central Research Institutes, and
the National Research Institutes through the award of Training
Scholarships.
(b) 
Provision of short-term advanced training to researchers and
other staff, including sandwich and post-doctoral training, and
carrying out of scientific exchanges and visits by Indonesian
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development scientists,
through the provision of Training Awards.
(c) 
Promotion of participation by researchers and management staff
in international conferences, seminars, and workshops.
2. 
Technical and management training
(a) 
Provision of technical and research management training to
researchers and research technicians.
(b) 
Provision of professional skills training to staff.
3. 
Human resource management
(a) 
Development and implementation of a detachering / mobility
program for knowledge and skills transfer among Indonesian
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development institutions
and mentoring ofjunior staff.
-6-
(b) 
Assessment of, and improvements to, staff conditions of service
and evaluation, promotion, and incentive system.
(c) 
Assessment of, and improvements to, staff recruitment system.
B 
Improvement in Research Infrastructure and Facilities
1. 
Laboratory improvem nt
(a) 
Modernization of equipment, implementation of information,
safety, and waste management systems and accreditation
programs, capacity building of personnel, and improvements in
laboratory development and seed production quality control.
(b) 
Preparation of grand design study, and improvements in
laboratory management, standardization, and seed production.
2. 
Field station improvement
(a) 
Improvement of field stations, including improvements to
experimental farms, plant growth and handling facilities, and
irrigation systems, modernization of equipment, and construction
or renovation of glasshouses.
(b) 
Improvement of seed production stations, including offices,
security systems, plant handling facilities, workshops, and
irrigation systems, modernization of equipment, and construction
or renovation of glasshouses.
3. 
Building construction and renovation: Construction of new laboratories
and offices, relocation of offices, and renovation of facilities and
infrastructure.
C. 
Research Management and Policy Support
1 .
Research priority-setting, planning, and programming
(a) 
Data collection and analysis in relation to need and demand for
services and technologies developed by the Indonesian Agency
for Agricultural Research and Development.
(b) 
Assessment of, and improvements to, performance assessment
system, including development and implementation of an
institutional assessment framework.
-7-
(c) 
Assessment of, and improvements to, research priority-setting,
planning, and programming systems.
2. 
Research collaboration and networking
(a) 
Establishment and / or scaling up of research collaboration funds
and enhancement of national and international 
research
collaboration partnerships through the provision of Research
Funds.
(b) 
Establishment and / or scaling up of innovation funds and
promotion of local agricultural innovation through the utilization
of research results through the provision of Research Funds.
3. 
Research products commercialization
(a) 
Identification of knowledge / technology commercialization
opportunities.
(b) 
Development of a comprehensive business plan for research
product commercialization.
(c) 
Promotion and commercial dissemination of technologies to the
private sector.
4. 
Improvement of technology dissemination systems
(a) 
Organization of local- and regional-level events to demonstrate
research activities and disseminate results.
(b) 
Strengthening of technology dissemination systems.
D. 
Proiect Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Project management, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation.
2. 
Provision of technical advisory support for implementation of Parts A, B,
C, and D. I of the Project.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall be respongible for Project management, implementation, and
monitoring and evaluation in accordance with the following institutional
arrangements.
Project Steering Committee
2. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for the provision of policy and strategic
orientation to the Project through the Project Steering Committee.
3 
To this end, the Borrower shall establish, not later than three (3) months after the
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout Project implementation, the
Project Steering Committee, with a composition, institutional framework,
functions, and resources satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank for such
purpose.
Ministry of Agriculture
Indonesian Agency for Agrictltural Research and Development
4. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for Project management, implementation,
including 
administrative 
and 
financial 
management, 
disbursement, 
and
procurement, and monitoring and evaluation through the Ministry of Agriculture,
particularly the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development,
and specifically the Project Management Unit.
5. 
To this end, the Borrower shzll maintain, throughout Project implementation, the
Project Management Unit, with an institutional framework, functions, and
resources, including competent personnel in adequate numbers, satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank for such purpose.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure tYat the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Transparency and
Accountability Framework.
-9-
C. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
update, from time to time on a schedule agreed between and in a manner
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, the Project Operations
Manual, adopt such updated Manual, and thereafter ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions thereof; and
(b) 
not, except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, the afcrementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations
Manual and those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
D. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for approval as soon as available, but in any case not
later than November 30 of each year, the annual work plan and budget
for the Project for each subsequent year of implementation, of such scope
and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, except for the
annual work plan and budget for the Project for the first year of
implementation, which shall be furnished not later than one (1) month
after the Effective Date; and
(b) 
thereafter ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with such
plans and bud;ets as approved by the Bank.
E. 
Training Scholarshipg, Training Awards, and Research Funds
Management
To facilitate the management of Parts A.1 (a) and (b) and C.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall appoint, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, in
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, and thereafter
maintain throughout Project implementation, (a) consultant(s) under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall include the
obligation of such con:,ultant(s) to:
(a) 
assist in the carrying out of competitive selection of candidates,
screening and selection of academic or research institutions, matching of
-10-
candidates to institutions and programs, provision of prp-departure
language training or cultural orientation to candidates, and program
management, including payment of fees to institutions and stipends to
candidates and provision of coaching and logistics support to candidates,
as applicable;
(b) 
ensure that said Parts of the Project are carried out in accordance with the
provisions of this Par: E;
(c) 
ensure that said Parts of the Project are carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of
loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and the Transparency and
Accountability Framework, and without any right or authority, except as
the Borrower and tfe Bank shall otherwise agree, to assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, the Transparency and Accountability Framework or any
provision thereof;
(d) 
ensure that said Parts of the Project are implemented in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Operations Manual and the Environmental
Code of Practice to the extent applicable, and without any right or
authority, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, to
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended,
abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof; and
(e) 
ensure that each Training or Research Activity is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the respective Training Scholarship,
Training Award, or Research Funds Agreement, as the case may be.
2. 
Review
The Borrower shall review E.nd approve applications for Training Scholarships,
Training Awards, or Research Funds, and thereafter monitor and evaluate
Training or Research Activities, through the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, acting with the assistance of the consultant(s)
referred to in the preceding paragraph, in accordance with the provisions of this
Part E and the Project Operations Manual.
Eligibility
No proposed Beneficiary shE.11 be eligible for a Training Scholarship, a Training
Award, or Research Funds unless, on the basis of a review conducted in
accordance with this Part E and the Project Operations Manual, the Borrower has
- 11 -
deemed satisfied the eligibility criteria specified below and in further detail in the
Project Operations Manual, which shall include those set out below.
(a) 
In the case of a Training Activity:
(i) 
the proposed Beneficiary: (A) is a staff member of the
Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
or an institution thereunder; (B) has been nominated by his / her
employing agency or unit for an eligible program and field of
study set out in the Project Operations Manual; (C) meets the
academic record, age, professional performance, and seniority
requirements set ouf in the Project Operations Manual; (D) has
performed satisfactorily on the required academic and language
tests; and (E) has successfully completed pre-departure language
training or cultural orientation, as required; and
(ii) 
the proposed academic or research institution to host the
Benefi,iary meets the quality assurance standards set out in the
Projeci Operations Manual.
(b) 
In the case of a Research Activity:
(i) 
the proposed Beneficiary is an institution under the Indonesian
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development;
(ii) 
any contribution, whether in cash or in kind, toward the cost of
the Research Activity from the proposed institutional partner
with which the Beneficiary will be working is set out in the
application and meets any related requirements in the Project
Operal ions Manual;
(iii) 
the objective of the Research Activity is consistent with at least
one (1) of those set out in the institutional assessment framework
to be ceveloped under Part C.1 of the Project; and
(iv) 
a monitoring and evaluation system is part of the Research
Activity and the proposed indicators are consistent with those for
specific research outputs set forth in the institutional assessment
framework to be developed under Part C. I of the Project.
4. 
Terms
(a) 
A Training or Research Activity shall be carried out pursuant to a
Training Scholarship, Training Award, or Research Funds Agreement, as
I
- 12-
the case may be, to be concluded between the Borrower, acting through
the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development, and
the Beneficiary, under terms satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
described in further detail in the Project Operations Manual, which shall
include the following.
(i) 
a description of the Training or Research Activity, its budget,
and the applicable performance indicators;
(ii) 
provision of the Training Scholarship, the Training Award, or
the Research Funds on a non-reimbursable basis, subject to the
fulfillment ofthe specified conditions;
(iii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out and successfully
complete the Training or Research Activity: (A) with due
diligence and efficiency; and (B) 
in accordance with the
provisions cf the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower, the
Transparency and Accountability 
Framework, the Project
Operations Manual, and the Environmental Code of Practice, as
applicable;
(iv) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to furnish to the Borrower
records refle,-ting the carrying out of the Training or Research
Activity upoi completion of each academic term, if applicable,
and the Training or Research Activity;
(v) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) use the proceeds of the
Training Scholarship, the Training Award, or the Research
Funds exclusively in the carrying out of the Training or Research
Activity, as the case may be; and (B) procure the goods and
services to be financed from the proceeds of the Training
Scholarship, the Training Award, or the Research Funds in
accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy
and use such expenditures exclusively in the carrying out of the
Training or Research Activity, as the case may be;
(vi) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to return to his employing
agency or unit upon completion of the Training or Research
Activity and continue in such employment for a minimum period
of time thereafter in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Operations Manual, subject to the application of the
specified sanctions in the event of non-fulfillment of this
condition; arid
- 13 -
(vii) 
the right of the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development, on behalf of the Borrower, and of the Borrower in
its own right, to: (A) obtain all information as it, or the Bank,
shall rcasonably request regarding the administration, operation,
and financial condition of the Training or Research Activity; and
(B) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Training Scholarship, the Training Award, or the
Resear.h Funds, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the
amount of the Training Scholarship, the Training Award, or the
Research Funds then withdrawn, upon failure by the Beneficiary
to perform any of his obligations under the Training Scholarship,
Trainirg Award, or Research Funds Agreement, as the case may
be.
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Training Scholarship,
Training Award, or Research Funds Agreement in such manner as to
protect its inte:ests and the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of t6e Training Scholarship, the Training Award, or the
Research Funcs, respectively, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or
permit to 
b-e 
assigned, 
amended, 
abrogated, 
or waived, 
the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
5. 
Audits
The Borrower shall czrry out annual technical audits of the compliance of the
Training Scholarships, the Training Awards, and the Research Funds with the
eligibility criteria, terms, and implementation procedures set out in paragraphs 2,
3, and 4 of this Part E and the Project Operations Manual and shall submit to the
Bank, not later than one (1) month after the receipt of the report of each such
audit, such report, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the respective Training or Research Activities and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such
report and the Bank's views on the matter.
F. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Environmental Code of Practice; and
-14-
(b) 
not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, said Code, or any provision thereof.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no land acquisition or Involuntary Resettlement is
carried out under the Project.
The Borrower shall ensure that each contract for works under the Project includes
the obligation of the relevant 1ontractor to implement the Environmental Code of
Practice.
4 
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect,
compile, and submit to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, information on
the status of compliance with the Environmental Code of Practice, giving details
of:
(a) 
measures taken in fur:herance of said Code;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of said Code; and
(c) 
remedial measures iaken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
:5. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Environmental Code of
Practice and those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
Section II. 
Proiect MonitorinF Reporting and Evaluation
AL. 
Project Reports
1 
(a) 
The Borrower shall rionitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
- 15 -
(b) 
The performarce indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a)
consist of the following:
No. 
Indicator
Project Objective
1. 
Percentage of farmers, disaggregated by gender, adopting Indonesian
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (IAARD) research
results disseminated under the Project
2. 
Number of technologies developed and / or refined and disseminated to users
3. 
Number of articles relating to agricultural research and development carried
out by IAARD published in internationally peer-reviewed journals
4. 
Percentage and number of sources of external funding in IAARD's research
and dissemination budget, and percentage of IAARD's operational budget
allocated to research and dissemination
Part A of the Project
5. 
Percentage of researchers in IAARD staff, disaggregated by gender
6. 
Percentage of IAARD researchers with master's and doctorate degrees,
disaggregated by gender
Part B of the Project
7. 
Number of laboratories supported under the Project having been accredited
nationally and internationally
8. 
Number of field stations supported under the Project having been accredited
nationally and internationally
9. 
Number of laboratories supported under the Project involved in international
research networkin:)
Part C of the Proje ct
10. 
Number of nationa. and international research collaborations
11. 
Number of inventions having been patented or licensed to industry
-16-
12. 
IAARD annual work programs take into account the results of the priority-
setting, planning, and programming systems developed under the Project
13. 
Number of areas under thl- IAARD multi-channel technology dissemination
program that are priorities consistent with Provincial 
Technology
Commission recommendations
(c) 
The Borrower shall lirnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports,
information as follows in relation to Parts A. 1 (a) and (b) of the Project
for the period covered by said Reports: (i) the names of Beneficiaries
selected and their ernploying agency or unit and host institution; (ii) the
amounts of the Training Scholarships, Training Awards, or Research
Funds awarded to said Beneficiaries; and (iii) the academic or research
performance of Beneficiaries having commenced their academic or
research program.
B. 
Annual Reviews
The Borrower shall review, jointly with the Bank, no later than one (1) month after the
submission of every second Project Report to the Bank, such report and the one
preceding, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of
the Project and the achievement of Ihe objective thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of such reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
C. 
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out, jointly with the Bank, not later than thirty (30) months after the
Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project implementation,
as measured against the perormance indicators set forth in Part A.1 (b) of this
Section H. Such review sha.. include an assessment of the following: (i) overall
progress in implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities;
(iii) progress on procuremen and disbursement; (iv) progress on implementation
of safeguards measures; (v) implementation arrangements; and (vi) the need to
make any adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve
performance.
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, at least one (1) month before each such review,
a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, needed to undertake the
review as described in the preceding paragraph, integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Part A.1 (a) of this
-17-
Section II on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review, jointly with the Bank, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Part C and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the
f 
conclusions and recommendations of such report and the Bank's views on the
matter.
D. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions. ,
2. 
Without limitation on te provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the
Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I Df the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set fcrth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
- 18-
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV, and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may te.
13. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the bass of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works, and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used: (a) National Competitive Bidding,
subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be us-d for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
(a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications;
(c) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (d) Procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set fortf those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-19-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article I[ of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in 
financed
Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Training Scholarships and 
39,525,000 
100
Training Awards for the Project
(Parts A.1 (a) and (b) of the
Project, respectively), and non-
consulting services and Training
for Part A of the Project, except
for Parts A.3 (b) and (c) of the
Project
(2) Goods, works, non- 
34,025,000 
100
consulting services, and Training
for Part B of the Project
(3) Research Funds fo the 
5,600,000 
100
Project (Part C.2 of thc: Project)
(4) Consultants' services for 
850,000 
100
Part D.2 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
80,000,000
- 20 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made p rior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2017.
- 21 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Provisions
The procedures applica:)le to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan Umum (Public Tendering) and Pemilihan
Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods as set forth in the
Borrower's Presidential Regulation No. 54/2010, with the modifications set out below in
order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the
provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said
Guidelines'. The Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering)
method shall apply to such procarement up to the financial thresholds specified in said
Regulation. 
In the event of a -onflict between the Borrower's procedures and these
modifications, the latter shall govern.
1 .
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.16
(Fraud and Corruption) of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and
each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall inc'ude provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and
corruption as defined in paragraph 1.16 (a) of said Guidelines and the
contract provisicns set out in paragraph 1.16 (e) of said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration
process is required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated
bidder shall be given reasonable time for registration. Foreign bidders
shall not be req aired to form a joint venture or sub-contract part of the
supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition for
submitting bids or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be
made available, by mail or in person, to all international bidders who are
willing to pay tte required fee.
3. 
No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. 
Under the Pele!angan Umum (Public Tendering) method, bidders shall
be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days from the date of the invitation to
bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later, to
prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the
Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering)
method.
-22-
5. 
Bids invited under :.he Pelelangan Umum (Public Tendering) method
shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and evaluated using post-
qualification.
6. 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the
owner's estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
7. 
Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of
credit or guarantee from a reputable bank or other reputable financial
institution and shall follow the form provided for this purpose in the
bidding documents without exception.
8. 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's
prior written concurrence.
9. 
Government-owned 
enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and
financially autonormous, operate under commercial law, and are not
dependent agencies of the Borrower.
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the firs: Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank )y multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Prinxcipal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
September 1, 2021 
2.17
March 1, 2022 
2.22
September 1, 2022 
2.28
March 1, 2023 
2.34
September 1, 2023 
2.40
March 1, 2024 
2.46
September 1, 2024 
2.52
March 1, 2025 
2.58
September 1, 2025 
2.64
March 1, 2026 
2.71
September 1, 2026 
2.78
March 1, 2027 
2.85
September 1, 2027 
2.92
March 1, 2028 
2.99
September 1, 2028 
3.07
March 1, 2029 
3.14
September 1, 2029 
3.22
March 1, 2030 
3.30
September 1, 2030 
3.38
March 1, 2031 
3.47
September 1, 2031 
3.56
March 1, 2032 
3.65
September 1, 2032 
3.74
March 1, 2033 
3.83
September 1, 2033 
3.93
March 1, 2034 
4.02
- 24 -
September 1, 2034 
4.12
March 1, 2035 
4.23
September 1, 2035 
4.33
March 1, 2036 
4.44
September 1, 2036 
4.71
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installm,nt Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the clate of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
-25 -
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determirned by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization
schedule for each such amount.
- 26 -
APPENDIX
Section .
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelincs" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Assessment Institutes for Agricultural Technology" means the technical
operational units of the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (as hereinafter defined) in each province, responsible for the
management of agricultural technology assessment, or successors thereto.
3. 
"Beneficiary" means, in the case of Research Funds (as hereinafter defined), an
institution under the Ind:nesian Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development to whom or for whose benefit Research Funds are made available
or proposed to be made available, and, in the case of a Training Award (as
hereinafter defined) or a Training Scholarship (as hereinafter defined), a staff
member of the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development or
an institution thereunder to whom or for whose benefit a Training Award or a
Training Scholarship is mac.e or proposed to be made, all in accordance with the
eligibility criteria specified in Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
in further detail in the Project Operations Manual (as hereinafter defined).
4. 
"Central Research Institute," means the institutes of the Indonesian Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development responsible for the management of
research and development .n relation to agricultural commodities or other such
areas, or successors thereto.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
6. 
"Degree Training Activity" means a specific activity carried out under
Part A.1 (a) of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a
Training Scholarship in accordance with the eligibility criteria specified in
Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in further detail in the Project
Operations Manual.
7. 
"Environmental 
Code of Practice" 
means the Borrower's code, dated
January 25, 2012, agreed with the Bank and setting out mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be
implemented under the Prcject, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels,
- 27 -
or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes'any annexes or
schedules to such code.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
9. 
"IAARD" or "Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development"
means the unit of the Ministry of Agriculture (as hereinafter defined) responsible
for the management of agricultural research and development, and whose
responsibilities under the Project are set out in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or a successor thereto.
10. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the following caused on account of Project
implementation: (a) the i avoluntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks
and protected areas resulhing in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected
person.
11. 
"Ministry of Agriculture" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for the
management of agriculture or a successor thereto.
12. 
"National Research Institutes" means the institutes of the Indonesian Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development responsible for the management of
research in relation to specific agricultural commodities or other such areas, or
successors thereto.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated June 8, 2012 ani referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Management Unit" means the unit of the Indonesian Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development, established and operating pursuant to
said Agency's Decree No. 273/Kpts/OT.160/1/11/2011 dated November 8, 2011,
and whose responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or a successor thereto.
-28-
16. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual, dated June 8, 2012,
agreed with the Bank and setting out implementation, organizational,
administrative, monitoring and evaluation, financial management, disbursement,
procurement, 
and 
safeguards 
arrangements 
for 
purposes 
of 
Project
implementation, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such manual.
17. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the Borrower's entity, referred to in
Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and whose responsibilities are set
out in Section I.A.2 of said Schedule, or a successor thereto.
18. 
"Provincial Technology Commission" means the commission established by each
provincial government, responsible for the coordination of the participation of
provincial stakeholders in p-ioritizing agricultural research and development and
reviewing the outcomes of agricultural technology assessments, or a successor
thereto.
19. 
"Research Activity" means a specific activity carried out under Part C.2 of the
Project, financed or proposed to be financed through Research Funds in
accordance with the eligibility criteria specified in Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and in further detail in the Project Operations Manual; and
"Research Activities" means more than one (1) such activity.
20. 
"Research Funds" means one (1) or more cash awards made or proposed to be
made to a Beneficiary institution out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a
Research Activity pursuant to a Research Funds Agreement and covering the cost
of research fees, equipme:it, and supplies, and living stipends and travel of
relevant Beneficiary institution staff, as applicable.
21. 
"Research Funds Agreement" means an agreement, referred to in Section I.E.4 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, between the Borrower, represented by the
Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development, and a
Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions governing Research Funds.
22. 
"Short-term Training Acti.vity" means a specific activity carried out under
Part A. 1 (b) of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a
Training Award in accordance with the eligibility criteria specified in
Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in further detail in the Project
Operations Manual.
23. 
"Training" means the cost of training under the Project, based on the annual work
plans and budgets referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as
approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, study tours, and workshops,
- 29 -
along with the cost of domestic and international travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training
facilities, preparation anc. reproduction of training materials, and other activities
directly related to training preparation and implementation.
24. 
"Training Activity" means a Degree Training Activity or a Short-term Training
Activity; and "Training Activities" means more than one (1) such activity.
25. 
"Training Award" means a cash award made or proposed to be made to a
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a Short-term Training
Activity pursuant to a Training Award Agreement (as hereinafter defined) and
covering the cost of training fees and supplies, living stipends, and travel, as
applicable; and "Training Awards" means more than one (1) such award.
26. 
"Training Award Agreement" means an agreement, referred to in Section I.E.4 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, between the Borrower, acting through the
Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development, and a
Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions governing a Training Award.
27. 
"Training Scholarship" means a cash award made or proposed to be made to a
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a Degree Training Activity
pursuant to a Training Scholarship Agreement (as hereinafter defined) and
covering the cost of training fees and supplies, living stipends, and travel, as
applicable; and "Training Scholarships" means more than one (1) such award.
28. 
"Training Scholarship Agreement" 
means an agreement, referred to in
Section I.E.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, between the Borrower, acting
through the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development, and
a Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions governing a Training
Scholarship.
29. 
"Transparency 
and 
Accountability 
Framework" 
means 
the Borrower's
framework, dated February 2012, agreed with the Bank and setting out measures
to reinforce Project governance, enhance the transparency of Project activities,
increase public accountability, and reduce opportunities for collusion, corruption,
or fraud under the Project, as the same may be modified from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such frame work.
-30-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modification to the General Conditions is as follows, namely, that
Section 2.05 (a) is modified to read a3 follows:
"(a) 
the payment is for the reasonable cost of goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants' services, training, training scholarships, training awards, or
research funds required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
procured, all in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;"
