OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8181-MA
Loan Agreement
(National Initiative for Human Development Program - Phase 2)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
C5 LL4 
4 
2012 between KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred twenty seven million
Euros (E227,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the
Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June15 and December 15 in each year.
-2-
:2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Lo)an, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Program through MOI in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5..01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance.
-3-
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Minist6re de l'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
MINFIN 
212-537-67-75-30/31
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 1W?7an 
Z;2ital4
Title: MAQCS[4ea 4 
6*&IMt
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
(Am g 
("ef1tA
Title:__ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to improve access to and/or use of enhanced
participatory local governance mechanisms, basic infrastructure, social services and
economic opportunities in the Program Area.
The Program consists of the following activities to be implemented from January
1, 2012 to December 31, 2015 in the Program Area under the rural sub-program, the
urban sub-program and the cross-cutting sub-program of the INDH 2 Program:
Part 1: Rural Sub-Program
Carrying out Projects identified and prioritized through a participatory planning
process, in selected rural communes, aimed at: (i) improving living conditions of the
population: (ii) supporting access to basic infrastructure and services; (iii) promoting
income generating activities; (iv) promoting social, cultural and sporting activities; and
(v) strengthening capacities.
Part 2: Urban Sub-Program
Carrying out Projects identified and prioritized through a participatory planning
process, in selected urban neighborhoods, aimed at (i) improving living conditions of the
population, (ii) supporting access to basic infrastructure and services; (iii) promoting
income generating activities; (iv) promoting social, cultural and sporting activities; and
(v) strengthening capacities.
Part 3: Cross-Cutting Sub-Program
1. 
Carrying out Projects identified through a competitive selection process, in non-
targeted areas under other sub-programs, aimed at (i) promoting economic
inclusion of poor and vulnerable persons; (ii) improving living conditions of the
population; (iii) supporting access to basic infrastructure and services; (iv)
promoting income generating activities; (v) promoting social, cultural and
sporting activities; and (vi) strengthening capacities.
2. 
Supporting communication, monitoring and evaluation, and capacity building
activities at the local level and providing technical assistance to Partners and
other relevant entities.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall carry out tle Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in
accordance with financial management, procurement and environmental and
social management systems acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary,
Environmental and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that:
1 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the
principles 
of 
economy, 
efficiency, 
effectiveness, 
transparency, 
and
accountability; and
2. 
the actual or potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program
are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through
an informed decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried
out, in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
i. 
Program Institutions
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower
shall maintain the implementation arrangements for the Program as set forth in
the INDH 2 Program durirg the implementation of the Program, and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any of
such arrangements if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Program or the
achievement of the objective thereof.
2. 
Operations Manuals and Guides
The Borrower shall carry out the Program in accordance with the Operations
Manuals, the Environmental and Social Guide and the Fiduciary Guide, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive
-7-
any provision of said Manuals and Guides if, in the opinion of the Bank, such
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Program or the achievement of the objective thereof.
3. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower
shall carry out the Action Plan in accordance with such schedule as shall have
been approved by the Bank.
Section H. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program shall include no activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are
sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people;
or
B. 
involve procurement of: (i) works, estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or
more per contract; (ii) goods, estimated to cost $30,000,000 equivalent or more
per contract; (iii) non-consulting services, estimated to cost $20,000,000
equivalent or more per contract; and (iv) consultants' services, estimated to cost
$15,000,000 equivalent or more per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reportinm and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and
prepare Program Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions. Each Program Report shall cover the period of one calendar
year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after
the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section LC of this Schedule 2 and Section
5.09 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
such period.
-8-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II zf the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the
Borrower to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee; and (b) finance the Program
Expenditures on the basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or
"DLRs") achieved by the Borrower as measured against specific indicators
("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Loan ("Category"), the Disbursement Linked Indicators and Disbursement
Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, subject to the provisions of Part B of this
Section:
Category
(including Disbursement 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the Loan
Linked Indicator as 
Result 
Allocated (expressed in
applicable) 
(as applicable) 
EURO)
(1) DLI #1: % of girls who 
DLR #1.1: 55% in FY12 
30,300,000, of which
reside in the educational 
7,575,000 for each DLR
dormitories (Dar Taliba), 
DLR #1.2: 60% in FY13
completing successfully the
relevant school year 
DLR #1.3: 65% in FY14
DLR #1.4: 70% in FY15
(2) DLI #2: % of population 
DLR #2.1: 72% in FY14 
30,300,000, of which
provided with access to 
15,150,000 for each DLR
improved water supply in 
DLR #2.2: 77% in FY15
targeted rural communes
covered by the Program
-9-
Category
(including Disbursement 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the Loan
Linked Indicator as 
Result 
Allocated (expressed in
applicable) 
(as applicable) 
EURO)
(3) DLI #3: % of income- 
DLR #3.1: 30% in FY14 
30,300,000, of which
generating activities 
15,150,000 for each DLR
implemented by non- 
DLR #3.2: 40% in FY15
governmental organizations or
companies (" socitgs de
personnes"), which are viable
two years after having
benefitted from financing
under the Program
(4) DLI #4: % of audited 
DLR#4.1: 65% in FY14 
15,200,000, of which
infrastructure Projects financed 
7,600,000 for each DLR
under the Program, judged by 
DLR #4.2: 70% in FY15
the auditors as conforming to
technical specifications, after
final commissioning
(5) DLI #5: 
DLR#5.1: 20% of 
22,700,000, of which
#5.1: % of women in the 
women in FY12 
11,350,000 for each DLR
following local governance
bodies: CLDH and CPDH 
DLR#5.2: 15% of youth
in FY 12
#5.2 % of youth (18 - 35 years
old) in the following local
governance bodies: CLDH and
CPDH
(6) DLI #6: % of Projects 
DLR #6.1: 57% in FY1 3 
26,500,000, of which
under the Rural and Urban 
11,250,000 for DLR #6.1
Sub-programs of the Program 
DLR #6.2: 64% in FY14 
and 7,625,000 for each of
implemented by local 
DLRs #6.2 and #6.3
governments (communes and 
DLR #6.3: 70% in FY15
"Conseils d'Arrondissement"),
or non- governmental
organizations.
- 10 -
Category
(including Disbursement 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the Loan
Linked Indicator as 
Result 
Allocated (expressed in
applicable) 
(as applicable) 
EURO)
(7) DLI #7: % of provinces 
DLR #7.1: 50% in FY13 
26,500,000, of which
and prefectorates in the 
11,250,000 for DLR #7.1
Program Area which have put 
DLR #7.2: 60% in FY14 
and 7,625,000 for each of
in place an action plan to 
DLRs #7.2 and #7.3
address audit 
DLR #7.3: 80% in FY15
recommendations
(8) DLI #8: % of priority audit 
DLR #8.1: 90% in FY14 
15,200,000, of which
recommendations included in 
7,600,000 for each DLR
action plans which are 
DLR #8.2: 95% in FY15
implemented
(9) DLI # 9: 
DLR #9.1: preparation of 
29,432,500, of which
the Environmental and 
15,000,000 for DLR #9.1
#9.1: preparation of the 
Social Guide in FYI2 
and 14,432,500 for DLR
Environmental and Social 
#9.2
Guide related to the Program; 
DLR #9.2: 100% of key
and 
actors trained in FY13
9.2: % of key actors (DAS
and local facilitation teams)
trained in the use of such guide
in environmental and social
safeguards
(10) Front-end Fee to be paid 
NDt applicable 
567,500
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the General
Conditions
7OTAL AMOUNT 
227,000
- 11 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
for any DLR referred to in the table in Part A.2 of this Section unless and
until the Bank is satisfied based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
said DLR has been fully achieved. The evidence shall be verified in
accordance with the provisions of the Verification Protocol.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1 (b) of this Section, the Borrower may
withdraw an amount not to exceed E56,750,000 as an advance; provided,
however, that if any DLR set forth in the table in Part A.2 of this Section in the
opinion of the Bank is not achieved (or only partially achieved), by the Closing
Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or portion of such advance as
determined by the Bank) to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank.
Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount
so refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance under any
Category shall be permitted only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1 (b) of this Section:
(a) 
if the Bank is satisfied that any DLR (excluding DLR #9.1) has been
partially achieved, provided that, at a minimum, the DLR Baseline for
said DLR has been achieved or exceeded, the Bank may authorize the
withdrawal of a portion of the amount of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR in accordance with the following formula: Loan amount allocated
to the DLR divided by the number of percentage points by which the
DLR exceeds the DLR Baseline multiplied by the number of percentage
points by which the actual result achieved exceeds the DLR Baseline;
and
(b) 
if the Bank is not satisfied that any DLR for any given FY has been fully
achieved, the Bank may at any time, by notice to the Borrower, decide in
its sole discretion to: (i) authorize the withdrawal of all or a portion of
the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR at such
later date (prior to the Closing Date) if and when the Bank shall be
satisfied that the DLR for any subsequent FY (if applicable) under the
same Category has been fully achieved; (ii) reallocate all or a portion of
the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR to any other
- 12 -
DLR(s); and/or (iii) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
then allocated to said DLR.
4. 
The Closing Date is June 31), 2016.
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if the Bank
establishes after the Closing Date that the Withdrawn Loan Balance exceeds the
total amount of Program Expenditures paid by the Borrower, exclusive of any
such expenditures financed by any other financier or by the Bank or the
Association under any oth,er loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning December 15, 2018
through December 15, 2040 
2.17%
On June 15, 2041 
2.35%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
- 14 -
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts jayable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the dat. of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated May 24, 2012, and referred to in
Section I.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated
February 1, 2012.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
4. 
"CLDH" means a local committee for human development ("Comit6 local de
d6veloppement humain").
5. 
"CPDH" means a provincial or prefectoral ("pr6fecture") committee for human
development ("Comit6 provincial ou pr6fectoral de d6veloppement humain").
6. 
"DAS" means the MOI's Social Action Divisions ("Divisions de l'Action
Sociale") at the provincial and prefecture levels.
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category,
the indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category,
the result under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the
amount of the Loan allocated to said result may be withdrawn in accordance with
the provisions of said Section IV.
9. 
"DLR Baseline" means, for the purpose of Section IV.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, the following baseline results as measured against the DLI for each
DLR: (i) 50% for DLI #1; (ii) 50% for DLI #2; (iii) 25% for DLI #3; (iv) 60%
for DLI #4; (v) 17% for DLI #5.1 and 12% for DLI #5.2; (vi) 50% for DLI #6;
(vii) 15% for DLI #7; (viii) 0% for DLI #8; and (ix) 0% for DLI #9.2.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Guide" means the guide to be adopted by the
Borrower aimed at facilitating the application by Program's stakeholders of the
environmental and social arrangements for the Program.
- 16 -
11. 
"Fiduciary Guide" means 1he guide to be adopted by the Borrower setting forth
the detailed fiduciary arrangements for the Program.
12. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, starting January 1
and ending December 31 of each calendar year.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General CorLditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
14. 
"Grant" means a grant provided under the Program pursuant to a Partnership
Agreement for the financing of a Project, in accordance with the Operations
Manuals.
15. 
"Income-Generating Activity Operations Manual" means the manual prepared by
the Borrower for the carryi rig out of income-generating activities under Parts 1, 2
and 3.1 of the Program, setting forth, inter alia: (i) the respective roles and
responsibilities for the implementation of the income-generating activities; (ii)
the environmental and social management arrangements; (iii) the monitoring and
evaluation procedures, incliding the monitoring and performance indicators ; and
(iv) the eligibility criteria, selection procedures, and terms and conditions for the
provision of Grants to Partners for the financing of Projects consisting of income-
generating activities.
16. 
"INDH National Coordination Unit" means the INDH National Coordination
Unit 
within 
MOI, 
res-onsible 
for 
monitoring 
and 
coordinating 
the
implementation of the Program.
17. 
"INDH 2 Program" means the Borrower's National Initiative for Human
Development 2 ("Initiativc Nationale de D6veloppement Humain 2" or "INDH
2") for the period 2011-2015, as described in the INDH 2 Platform document
launched on June 4, 201 : (a) consisting in a poverty, social exclusion and
vulnerability, reduction program based on a participatory approach: and (b)
including the following sub-programs: (i) a rural sub-program to alleviate
poverty in rural areas ("rural sub-program"); (ii) an urban sub-program to
alleviate social exclusion in urban areas ("urban sub-program"); (iii) a cross-
cutting sub-program; (iv) a vulnerability sub-program; and (v) a territorial
upgrading sub-program.
18. 
"MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry in charge of the Interior ("Minist&re de
l'Intdrieur), or any successor thereto.
- 17 -
19. 
"Operations Manuals" means, collectively, (a) each of the operations manuals
regarding respectively each of the three sub-programs to be carried out under the
Program, setting forth, inter alia: (i) the respective roles and responsibilities for
the implementation of the respective sub-program; (ii) the environmental and
social management arrangements for the Program; (iii) the monitoring and
evaluation procedures, including the monitoring and performance indicators for
the respective sub-program; and (iv) the eligibility criteria, selection procedures,
participatory processes and terms and conditions for the provision of Grants to
Partners under the relevant sub-program; and (b) the Income-Generating Activity
Operations Manual.
20. 
"Partner" means a public entity, a local government ("collectivit6 territoriale"),
or a non- governmental organization to which a Grant is made or proposed to be
made pursuant to a Partnership Agreement in accordance with the Operations
Manuals.
21. 
"Partnership Agreement" means a partnership agreement entered into between a
Partner and a CPDH or a CLDH, as the case may be, for the financing of a
Project, in accordance with the Operations Manuals.
22. 
"Program Area" means the Borrower's regions of Tanger-Tetouan, Taza-Al-
Hoceima-Taounate, Fes-Boulemane, Meknes-Tafilalet, Tadla-Azilal, Doukkala-
Abda, Rabat-Sale-Zemmour-Zaer, Greater Casablanca, Oriental, Marrakech-
Tensift-Al Haouz, Chaouia-Ouardigha, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni Hssen, and Souss-
Massa-Draa, and the Borrower's provinces of Guelmim, Assa-Zag, Tan-Tan and
Tata.
23. 
"Program Fiduciary and Environmental and Social Systems" means the
Borrower's systems for the Program referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
24. 
"Project" means a specific project to be carried out by a public entity, a local
government ("collectivit6 territoriale"), or a non- governmental organization
under Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Program, utilizing the proceeds of a Grant.
25. 
"Verification Protocol" means the protocol dated May 24, 2012, and referred to
in Section IV.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
- 18 -
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is
modified to read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to
read "the Program Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is
modified to read "the Program Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report"
is modified to read "Program Report"; and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is
modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers shall be modified to reflect the substantive amendments set out below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the
subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications
for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" shall be replaced with "Applications
for Withdrawal", and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special
Commitment" shall be deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted
in its entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible
Expenditures (renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I
of this Section II), is modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the
reasonable cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Legal
Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06),
Financing Taxes, is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time
determines that the amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is
discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program Expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan specified in the Loan Agreement, as
required to ensure consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to
read: "Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal
category under the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate any other amour t of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably
determines at any time that such reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of
the Program.
- 19-
9. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower
may, by notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance."
10. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, is deleted, and
subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
11. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by
Cancellation or Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent
Sections in Article VII and references to such Sections are renumbered
accordingly.
12. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers are modified, as
necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above. In addition, paragraph 86
("Special Commitment") is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
