MI
LOAN NUMBER 8145-LK
Loan Agreement
(Metro Colombo Urban Development Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
"^y 
, 2012, between the DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA ("the Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("the Bank"). The Borrower
and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and thirteen million
Dollars ($213,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("the Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("the Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an approved
currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the Project management
unit within MoDUD, and in collaboration with the PIAs and PLAs, in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is ten (10) years after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
The Secretariat
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka
Tel: 94 1 2484510-0
Facsimile: 94-112-447633
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By
Autho 
epresentative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to: (i) reduce flooding in the
catchment of the Colombo water basin; and (ii) strengthen the capacity of local
authorities in the CMA to rehabilitate, improve and maintain local infrastructure and
services through selected demonstration investments.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Flood and Drainage Management in the Colombo Water Basin
Part 1.1: Enhancement of drainage capacity in Colombo water basin including
enhancement of runoff from the southeastern upper section of the basin, creation of
lakes/retention areas in the central section of the basin, removal of bottlenecks in the
downstream reaches of the canals, improvement of the outflow capacity 
and
improvement/ construction of canal bank protections.
Part 1.2: Rehabilitation and upgrading of the micro-drainage systems in priority flood-
prone areas under the jurisdiction of the Colombo Municipal Council.
Part 1.3: Development of an integrated flood management system for the Colombo
Water Basin, including carrying out selected investments to improve public usability of
canals and lakes and acquisition of maintenance machinery.
Part 1.4: Rehabilitation and/or construction of embankments and developing a
linear/nodal park along the east and southwest shores of Beira Lake, and establishing a
natural park around degraded wetlands in Beddagana.
Part 2: Urban Development and Infrastructure Rehabilitation, and Capacity
Building
Part 2.1: Investment Support to Project Local Authorities
Enhancing the capacity of the PLAs to deliver sustainable, high quality local services and
to coordinate delivery of services at the metropolitan level through implementing select
high-priority infrastructure improvements in areas within the jurisdiction of the PLAs,
including rehabilitation and improvement of drainage and roads, upgrading of local
public facilities, and acquisition of equipment to improve local public services.
-6-
Part 2.2: Institutional strengthening and capacity building
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of the PLAs in the areas of road asset management,
development 
and 
implementation 
of technical 
standards, 
preparation 
of road
rehabilitation and maintenance works (including quality control), solid waste collection
and management; and the operation of an integrated metro-level geographic information
system platform.
(b) 
Supporting metropolitan 
development 
strategies 
and planning, including
preparation of a city development strategy for the Colombo metropolitan region, an
integrated master plan and a solid waste management feasibility study and action plan for
the CMA and surrounding areas; and a detailed study for selected priority metropolitan
services.
Part 3: Implementation Support
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to carry out Project activities, including
(i) provision of technical support to the PMU in the areas of Project management,
monitoring and evaluation, procurement, financial management, and environmental and
social safeguards; (ii) public awareness and communications support regarding Project
interventions, public expectations, behavior changes and resettlement; (iii) provision of
technical support to the SLLRDC, UDA, and the PLAs in construction, supervision, and
compliance with environmental and social safeguards; and (iii) acquisition of vehicles,
office furniture and IT equipment for the PMU.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
I. 
For purposes of implementation and coordination of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain a, self-standing Project management unit within MoDUD with
qualified staff in adequate numbers, including, but not limited to, a Project
Director, an Accountant, a Procurement Specialist, an Environmental Specialist,
a Civil Engineer, and a Social Specialist.
2. 
For purposes of oversight of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a Steering
Committee chaired by Secretary of MoDUD and comprising, in addition,
representatives from the Project Implementing Agencies, the Project Local
Authorities, and such other agencies of the Borrower as may be required to deal
with specific issues arising during the implementation of the Project.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The PMU shall be responsible for: (a) procurement, disbursement and fiduciary
arrangements; 
(b) preparation and implementation of all the Safeguards
Instruments; (c) public awareness and communications (d) overall quality
assurance; (e) monitoring and evaluation; and (f) consolidated Project reporting
requirements, in collaboration with the PIAs and PLAs.
2. 
The PLAs and PIAs shall be responsible for detail design, construction
supervision and compliance with environmental and social safeguards related to
their respective Part of the Project and shall prepare bi-annual progress reports in
respect of such Part of the Project for onward transmission to the PMU. The
PMU shall assist the PLAs, as appropriate, with carrying out of the said
responsibilities.
3. 
The PMU shall collect and consolidate the outcome and intermediate indicators
prepared by the PLAs and PIAs based on the results framework presented in
Annex I for onward transmission to the Bank as provided for in Section II of this
Schedule 2.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-8-
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Safeguard Instruments.
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraph the Borrower
shall ensure that the Safeguard Instruments required under the Social
Management Framework and the Environmental Management Framework are:
(a) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank;
(b) 
except as otherwise agreed with the Bank in writing, submitted to the
Bank for review and approval; and
(c) 
thereafter, adopted and locally disclosed before the commencement of
any affected Project activities.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated,
or waived, any of the afore-mentioned, or any provision of any one thereof.
4. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall ensure that, whenever provisions of any Safeguard Instrument are varied or
altered, such variation or alteration shall be appropriate, necessary and
minimized, and that adequate mitigation measures shall be identified and
incorporated in the design of the Project, as shall be acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each contract for civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan includes the obligation
of the relevant contractor to implement and monitor the applicable requirements
of the Safeguards Instruments.
6. 
The Borrower shall undertake regular environmental and social appraisal,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation, all in
accordance with guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and shall
take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit
to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, information on the status of
compliance with the Safeguards Istruments, giving details of:
(a) 
the measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere -or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
-9-
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
7. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of the Safeguards
Instruments and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Agencies to monitor and
evaluate the progress of their respective parts of Part 1 of the Project and provide
sufficient relevant information on a timely basis to the Borrower to allow the
Borrower to prepare Project Reports as set out in Paragraph 3 below.
2. 
The Borrower through the PMU shall:
(a) 
monitor and evaluate the progress of Part 2.2(b) of the Project;
(b) 
cause the PLAs to monitor and evaluate the progress of their respective
parts of Part 2 of the Project and to provide sufficient relevant information
on a timely basis to the Borrower to prepare Project Reports as set out in
Paragraph 3 below; and
(c) 
assist such PLAs to carry out the responsibilities set out in the preceding
paragraph, as appropriate.
3. 
The PMU shall coordinate the collection and compilation and consolidation of the
data provided by Project Implementing Agencies and the Project Local
Authorities in accordance with the two (2) preceding paragraphs, and shall utilize
such data to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in
Attachment 1 to this Schedule 2. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to-the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank forty-five (45) days after the end of each
- 10-
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than eight (8) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions
of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of
the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set
forth in Attachment 2 to this Schedule
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
(d) 
Force Account
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Fixed Budget Selection
(c) 
Least-cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) 
Single Source Selection
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
- 12 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for
Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
212,467,500 
100%
consulting services and
consultants' services,
under Parts l and 2.1 of
the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
532,500 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07(b) of the General
Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
213,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may be made for
- 13 -
payments made prior to this date but on or after June 1, 2011, for Eligible
Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
- 14 -
ATTACHMENT 1 TO SCHEDULE 2 - Monitorable Indicators
Project Development Objective (PDO):
The project development objectives (PDOs) are to (i) reduce flooding in the catchment of the Colombo water basin, and (ii) contribute to strengthen the capacity of local
authorities in the CMA to rehabilitate, improve and maintain local infrastructure and services through selected demonstration investments.
Cumulative Target Values** 
Data 
.
Description
PDO Level Results 
2 
Unit of 
Baselin 
Frequenc 
Source/ 
fosData 
(indicator
0for 
Data 
dfnto
indicators* 
U 
Measure 
e 
YR 1 
YR 2 
YR3 
YR 4 
YR5 
y 
Methodolo 
Collection 
definition
gy 
etc.)
Indicator One: 
Km2 
5.5 
3.0 
2 
Baseline, 
SLLRDC 
SLLRDC and 
-
Reduction in the area under 
mid-term 
and CMC's 
CMC, in
risk of flooding (50-year 
(YR3) 
hydrologica 
coordination
return period) in the project 
El 
and at 
I & 
with PMU.
area. 
project 
hydraulic
closure 
models.
(YR5).
Indicator Two: Percentage 
l 
Percentage 
50 
53 
57 
60 
65 
70 
Baseline, 
Feasibility 
PLAs, in 
Roads with
of total urban roads 
of total 
mid-term 
studies and 
coordination 
International
maintained by PLAs that are 
classified 
(YR3) 
progress 
with PMU. 
Roughness
in good and fair conditions 
roads 
and at 
reports. 
Index (IRI)
in the 4 PLAs. 
project 
between 3 and
closure 
7 are
(YR5). 
considered in
good and fair
conditions
based on the
Sri Lanka
Road
Development
Authority
classification.
INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Intermediate Result (Component One): Flood and Drainage Management
1.1 
Length of primary 
K 
0 
-
-
6 
9.2 
Baseline, 
Progress 
SLLRDC, in 
-
canals improved by the 
| OImid-term 
report 
coordination
- 15 -
project. 
(YR3) 
with PMU.
and at
project
closure
(YR5).
m'/s 
149 
189 
268 
Baseline, 
Progress 
SLLRDC in
1.2 Increase in drainage 
mid-term 
report 
coordination
capacity (gravity system) 
(YR3) 
with PMU,
E] 
and at
project
closure
(YR5).
m'/s 
3.5 
10 
25 
Baseline, 
Progress 
SLLRDC in
1.3 Increase in drainage 
mid-term 
report 
coordination
capacity (pumping system, 
(YR3) 
with PMU,
subject to the results of the 
l 
and at
hydrological model) 
project
closure
(YR5).
Number 
0 
0 
10 
15 
15 
Baseline, 
Progress 
CMC, in
1.4 Micro-drainage 
mid-term 
report 
coordination
subprojects implemented 
(YR3) 
with PMU.
under the Project that reduce 
Eand 
at
risk of flooding in localized 
j
project
areas (1 0-year return 
closure
period). 
(YR5).
1.5 IFMS developed and 
Y=Yes 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Annual 
Progress 
SLLRDC in
mainstreamed into 
mi-Nt 
No 
report 
coordination
SLLRDC's operations. 
with PMU,
UerPercentage 
TBD. 
50% 
80% 
(YR3) 
User 
SLLRDC in 
User
sof 
and at 
satisfaction 
coordination 
satisfaction
Beira Lake Development 
interviewed 
surveys carried
- 16 -
and Beddagana and Kotte 
users. 
project 
survey. 
with PMU 
out within two
Ramparts Park' 
closure 
months of
(YR5). 
approval. Mid
and End Project
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Urban Development and Institutional Building for Metro Colombo Local Authorities, and Implementation
Support
2.1 Metropolitan Colombo 
Delivered 
D 
E 
Annual 
Progress 
UDA in
City Development Strategy 
D 
report. 
coordination
and Integrated Master Plan 
Endorsed 
with PMU
delivered and endorsed by 
E
UDA
2.2. Km of road/drainage 
Km 
0 
0 
20 
30 
55 
Annual 
PLAs' 
PLAs in 
-
built/rehabilitated based on 
municipal 
coordination
prescribed standards. 
data 
with PMU
2.3 Core asset management 
Delivered = 
-
-
-
D 
0 
0 
Annual 
PLAs' 
PLAs in 
-
syste 
foras municiagem 
D 
municipal 
coordination
system for municipal roads 
Operational 
data. 
with PMU
and drainage delivered and 
=O
fully operational in the four
PLAs.
2.4. Households provided 
Number of 
217,468 
225,000 
240,000 
(YR3) 
Progress 
PLAs in 
Number /
2.4. Households p 
oid 
HHs and 
(80%) 
(85%) 
(90%) 
and at 
reports 
coordination 
percentage of
with access to regular solid 
percentage 
project 
with PMU 
HHs provided
waste collection in the 4 
of total HHs 
closure 
with regular
PLAs. 
in the four 
access to solid
PLAs. 
(YR5). 
waste collection
(at least twice a
week) in the 4
PLAs.
2.5. 
aily door-to-door solid 
E] Number of 
1.7 
3 
4 
(YR3) 
Progress 
PLAs in 
Number of
2ail 
door-trsolid 
daily trips 
and at 
reports 
coordination 
vehicles used
waste collection trips per 
per 1,000 
project 
with PMU 
for door-to door
IUser Satisfaction Surveys will be carried out for both subprojects within two months from project approval to determine the baseline..
- 17-
1,000 households in the 4 
HHs. 
closure 
collection
PLAs s 
(YR5). 
multiplied by
average number
of vehicles'
daily trips, per
1,000 HHs in
the 4 PLAs
2.6. Users satisfied with 
O Percentage 
-TBD 
-
-
50% 
-
80% 
(YR3) 
User 
PLAs in 
User
area-based demonstration 
of 
and at 
satisfaction 
coordination 
satisfaction
aroebse indolmoait. 
interviewed 
project 
survey. 
with PMU 
surveys carried
projects in Colombo City. 
users. 
coueout 
within two
closure 
months of
(YR5). 
approval. Mid
and End Project
ATTACHMENT 2
TO
SCHEDULE 2
Requirements under National Competitive Bidding
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the
provisions of the Procurement Guidelines, goods, works, and non consultant services
procured under the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) method shall be subject to the
following requirements.
1. 
Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Bank shall be used
for bidding.
2. 
Invitations for bids will be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated
national daily newspaper, and bidding documents will be made available at least
twenty-one (21) days before, and issued up to, the deadline for submission of
bids.
3. 
Qualification criteria will be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration
process is required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder shall be given a reasonable time for registering, without let or hindrance.
4. 
Bids will be opened in public in one location, immediately after the deadline for
the submission of bids, as stipulated in the bidding document (the bidding
document will indicate the date, time and place of bid opening).
5. 
Except in cases of force majeure or exceptional situations beyond the control of
the implementing agency, the extension of bid validity will not be allowed.
6. 
Bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official
estimate.
7. 
Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there will be no negotiation of
price with bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
8. 
A bidder's bid security will apply only to the specific bid, and a contractor's
performance security will apply only to the specific contract under which they
are furnished.
9. 
Bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the
estimated cost, unless agreed with the Bank.
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2017
through November 15, 2036 
2.5%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows.
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in
paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment
Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date[, such amounts repayable
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and
shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 19-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or
after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of implementation of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks
and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on 
Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Colombo Metropolitan Area" and "CMA" mean the area under the jurisdiction
of the Project Local Authorities (as defined in this Appendix).
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
6. 
"Cultural Management Plan" means a plan acceptable to the Bank to be prepared
by the Borrower, if required as provided for in the Social Management
Framework, for assessing potential impacts of the Project on any movable or
immovable objects, sites, structures, groups of structures, and natural features
and landscapes that have archaeological, paleontological, historical, architectural,
religious, aesthetic, or other cultural significance which are encountered in the
course of implementing 
the 
Project, 
and 
preventing, 
minimizing, 
or
compensating for adverse impacts and enhancing positive impacts on such
physical cultural resources through site selection and design.
7. 
"Environment Management Plan for a Front-Runner Activity" means each of the
Borrower's plans disclosed on November 16, 2011, and acceptable to the Bank
for a Front-Runner Activity, setting forth the specific actions, measures and
policies designed to maximize the environmental benefits of such activity and to
eliminate, offset or mitigate any adverse environmental impacts, or reduce such
impacts to acceptable 
levels, along with administrative and monitoring
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said actions, measures and
policies, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written
-21-
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
plan.
8. 
"Environment Protection Laws' means, collectively, the Borrower's National
Environmental Act (Act No. 47 of 1980), Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance
(Ordinance No. 2 of 1937), Coast Conservation Act (Act No. 57 of 1981) and
Marine Pollution Prevention Act (Act No. 59 of 1981), and the Forest Ordinance
(Ordinance No 16 of 1907), as the same may be duly amended from time to time.
9. 
"Environmental Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank and publicly disclosed on November 16, 2011, for
undertaking environmental analysis and developing mitigation measures for all
Project activities, as said Framework may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such Framework.
10. 
"Front-Runner Activities" means the activities which have the following
characteristics: (a) their precise scope, location and magnitude of impacts is
known; (b) they are urgent and priority investments at an advanced stage of
preparation; and (c) they have limited or no social and environmental impact;
and "Front-Runner Activity" means any one of such Front-Runner Activities.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
12. 
"Land Acquisition Act" means the Borrower's Land Acquisition Act No. 9 of
1950 and subsidiary Land Acquisition Regulations of 2008, as the same may be
revised from time to time.
13. 
"MoDUD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Defense and Urban Development,
or any successor thereto.
14. 
"National Involuntary Resettlement Policy" means the Borrower's involuntary
resettlement policies known as NIRP, 2001 and NIRP, 2003.
15. 
"Other Activities" means activities to be financed under the Project other than
Front-Runner Activities; and "Other Activity" means any one of such Other
Activities.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 8, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
- 22 -
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Project Implementing Agencies" and "PlAs" means, collectively: (i) the Sri
Lanka Land Reclamation and the Development Corporation; and (2) the Urban
Development Authority.
19. 
"Project Local Authorities" and "PLAs" mean, collectively: (a) the Colombo
Municipal Council; (b) the Municipal Council of Dehiwala-Mt Lavinia; (c) the
Municipal Council of Sri Jayawardenapura-Kotte; and (d) the Urban Council of
Kolonnawa.
20. 
"Project Management Unit" and "PMU" mean the unit established by the
Borrower within MoDUD for the purposes of Project implementation, and to be
maintained as provided for in Schedule 2, Section I, Part A.1 of this Agreement.
21. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to be prepared
by the Borrower for any one of the Other Activities in accordance with the
guidelines and procedures set forth in the Social Management Framework, as set
out in Schedule 2, Section D, Paragraph 2 to this Agreement, setting forth
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and related assets,
and the compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as
said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.
22. 
"Safeguards Instrument" means any Environmental Management Plan for Front-
Runner Activities, any Social Action Plan for Front-Runner Activities, the
Environmental Management Framework, the Social Management Framework, or
any Environment Management Plan, Cultural Management Plan, Social Action
Plan, or Resettlement Action Plan prepared with respect to activities under the
Project, as said instrument may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such instruments.
23. 
"Social Action Plan for Front-Runner Activities" means each of the Borrower's
plans, acceptable to the Bank publicly disclosed on November 16, 2011 setting
forth the criteria, principles and procedures for taking mitigation measures
regarding social impacts of Project activities, including provisions to ensure
gender equity, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such plan.
24. 
"Social Action Plans for Other Activities" means the plans to be prepared by the
Borrower in accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in the Social
Management Framework, as set out in Schedule 2, Section D, Paragraph 2,
- 23 -
setting forth, with respect to Other Activities, principles and procedures for
taking mitigation measures regarding social impacts of Project activities, as said
plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.
25. 
"Social Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework, acceptable
to the Bank and publicly disclosed on November 16, 2011, for undertaking social
analysis and developing mitigation measures for Project activities, as said
Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such Framework.
26. 
"Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation" and "SLLRDC"
mean the agency responsible for the development of low-lying areas, flood
control and drainage investments and the management and maintenance of the
primary canal system in the territory of the Borrower; or any successor thereto.
27. 
"Steering Committee" means the committee established by the Borrower to
oversee Project preparation and implementation and facilitate inter-agency
collaboration, and to be maintained as provided for in Schedule 2, Section I, Part
A.2 of this Agreement
28. 
"Urban Development Authority" and "UDA" mean the Borrower's central
planning agency for the Colombo Metropolitan Area, with responsibilities for
urban physical planning, regulation and development, producing structural plans
that often are not keeping pace with the speed of development on the ground; or
any successor thereof.
