OFFICtAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8224-UA
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Development of the State Statistics System for
Monitoring the Social and Economic Transformation Project)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8224-UA
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
0&&t 
0? 
,2012, between UKRAINE
("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing to finance
the cost of the activities under Parts E.2,.5 and 6 and F of the Original Project (as defined
in the Appendix to this Agreement and revised in Schedule 1 to this Agreement). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Original Loan Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
for additional financing of the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one-quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversions of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the SSSU in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through the SSSU, shall ensure that the Project are carried out in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, the
Operations Manual has been updated to the satisfaction of the Bank and said
update has been approved by the SSSU.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
4.03. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties
hereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General
Conditions. Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending
agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
Facsimile:
(380-44) 425 90 26
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written.
UKRAINE
By
Authorized Representative
Name: OEehaod Ovaa&4o
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Objective and Description
The objective of the Project is to build a sustainable state statistical system which
efficiently provides timely and accurate data for policy evaluation and decision making.
The Project consists of Parts E.2, 5 and 6 and F of the Original Project revised as set forth
below:
Part E: 
Introduction of Modem Information and Communication Technology
Modernization of information and communication technology as the result of country-
wide roll-out of the Integrated Statistical Data Processing System (ISDPS), including the
strengthening of technical infrastructure through: (i) procurement of additional equipment
and software for data base management; (ii) expansion of the ISDPS functionality; and
(iii) staff training to use and manage the ISDPS.
2. 
Source Data Collection, Processing and Storage Systems
(a) Strengthening of the ISDPS functionality through development of additional modules
to ensure the correct introduction of changes to statistical surveys during their conduct,
decrease of the duration and increase of the efficiency of the processes related to survey
design and testing, data entry and aggregation; and (b) rolling-out of ISDPS at the
regional level to ensure the staff training and establishment of the basis for further
country-wide implementation of ISDPS.
5. 
Technical Infrastructure
Strengthening of technical infrastructure, including through: (i) procurement of new
working stations and additional equipment to expand the technical infrastructure and
improve the performance of work places for statisticians at the regional level; (ii)
procurement of additional servers and software for central and regional levels to create
the testing environment to ensure operational testing of each statistical survey before
transferring it into the ISDPS; and (iii) modernization (upgrading) through technical
support of Sybase standard software that were procured earlier and create the platform for
the development and further implementation of the ISDPS.
6. 
Computerization and Human Resources
Carrying out of a specialized training of SSSU staff at the central and regional levels that
will be involved in implementation and use of the ISDPS, including training on issues of
input and control of primary data, statistical survey design, development and performance
-6-
of controls, calculations, compilation of output tables, ISDPS administration, etc. , and
creation of ISDPS's user supporting center.
Part F: Proiect Management
Supporting the functioning of the Project Implementation Unit to ensure day-to-day
Project management and performance 
monitoring, specifically in the areas of
procurement and financial management, as to enable proper coordination of the Project
activities implementation and carry out the audits of the Loan.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower, through the SSSU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Operations Manual, updated in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and shall maintain said Operations Manual in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower, through the SSSU, shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive said Operations Manual without obtaining the prior
approval of the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through the SSSU, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through the SSSU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank with a copy to the MoEDT of the Borrower
not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution Project required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower, through the SSSU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through the SSSU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank within forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
-8-
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the SSSU, shall have the Project Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal is made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period
and shall be made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and services (other than consultants' services), shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding
procedures.
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and services (other than
consultants' services). The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
-9-
Procurement Method
(a) Shopping
(b) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
The following methods, may be used for procurement of consultants' services for
those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Least Cost
Selection; (b) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (c) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (d) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 10-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(Inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and non-consulting 
9,975,000 
100%
services, consultants' services
and Operating Costs for the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
25,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar Premium 
0 
Section 2.07 (c) of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of
_______________________ 
_________________the 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
10,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning on July 15, 2020 
5.88%
through January 15, 2028
On July 15, 2028 
5.92%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 12 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-13-
APPENDIX
Definitions
(a) 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
(b) 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c) 
"Consultant 
Guidelines" 
means 
the "Guidelines: 
Selection 
and
Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
(d) "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
(e) 
"ICT" means information and communications technology.
(f) 
"Ministry of Finance" or "MOF" mean the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance established and functioning under the provisions of the Decree of the President
of Ukraine No. 466/2011 dated April 8, 2011, "On the Statute of the Ministry of Finance
of Ukraine".
(g) 
"Operations Manual" means the manual developed by the SSSU and
adopted by its Order No. 49 dated January 11, 2004 and to be updated to include revised
Parts E.2, 5 and 6 and F of the Original Project pursuant to Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, setting forth the mechanisms and procedures of the Project management, in
particular in the area of financial management and procurement, as the same may be
amended from time to time upon agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
(h) 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Loan Number
4729 UA) between the Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) dated July 15, 2004, as amended.
(i) 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan
Agreement.
(j) 
"Operating costs" means expenditures incurred to finance the reasonable
and necessary expenses for the operations, administration and ordinary maintenance of
the PIU, and which include office equipment and hardware and their maintenance costs,
supplies, software, and the cost of communications, transportation, translation services
and operational travel of the staff of the PIU.
- 14-
(k) 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Procurement of
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
(1) 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the
Project, dated October 17, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
(in) 
"Project" means Parts E.2, 5, and 6 and Part F of the Original Project
revised as set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement to be financed by the Loan.
(n) 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means a group of consultants,
established in October 2005 pursuant to the contracts between the State Statistics Service
of Ukraine and individual consultants for the Original Project activities implementation,
who will be responsible for the Project's financial management, procurement,
disbursement and Project reporting, evaluation and monitoring.
(o) 
"State Statistics Service of Ukraine" or "SSSU" means the Project
implementing agency, the Borrower's specially authorized central executive body
established pursuant to a Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 1085/2010 dated
December 9, 2010 "On Optimization of the System of Central Executive Bodies"
responsible for the implementation of the state statistical policy and operating pursuant to
the Regulation on the State Statistics Service of Ukraine adopted by the Decree of the
President of Ukraine No. 396/2011 dated on April 6, 2011 (with changes and amendments
made by Decrees of the President of Ukraine 134/2012 of February 22, 2012 and
405/2012 of June 19, 2012), and the Law of Ukraine "On State Statistics" and Law No.
1922-111 dated July 13, 2000, "On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine "On State
Statistics").
(p) "The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine" or
"MoEDT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
established and operating pursuant to a Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 634/2011
dated May 31, 
2011, "Regarding the Regulation on the Ministry of Economic
Development and Trade of Ukraine.
