fiCtAL
LOAN NUMBER 8121-ID
Loan Agreement
Jakarta Urgent Flood Mitigation Project
(Jakarta Emergency Dredging Initiative)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
6 
N 
, 2012, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this. Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred thirty nine million six
hundred forty thousand United States Dollars (US$139,640,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project")..
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty(30) days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out the MPW Parts of the Project through the
Ministry of Public Works in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions; and (b) cause the DKI Parts of the Project to be carried out
by DKI, as the Project Implementing Entity for the DKI Parts of the Project, in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the
Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: PJA has acted in
contravention of what is required of it by the terms of this Agreement or the
Project Agreement, or has failed to take any action that it is required to take by
the terms of this Agreement or the Project Agreement, in each case in a manner
-3-
so as to affect materially and adversely the implementation of the Project or the
achievement of the objective thereof.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: The event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower has (i) established the Central Project Management Unit,
the 
Central 
Project 
Implementation 
Unit, 
and 
each 
Project
Implementation Unit; and (ii) each of the Central Project Management
Unit, the Central Project Implementation Unit and each Project
Implementation Unit at each of DGWR, DGHS and DKI has adopted the
Project Operations Manual;
(b) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and DKI, as the Project Implementing Entity for the DKI Parts
of the Project.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following.
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with
its terms.
(b) 
Each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized by DKI and is legally binding upon DKI in
accordance with its respective terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
62-21-381-2859
Jakarta
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Rahmat WaluyantD
Authorized RepresentativeÆ-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A uthorzed Representative
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the improvement of the operation
and maintenance of priority sections of Jakarta's flood management system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. 
Dredging and rehabilitation of selected key floodways, canals and
retention basins.
(a) 
Dredging and rehabilitation of the Project Sites consisting of eleven (11)
floodways, with a total length of approximately 67.5 kilometers, and four (4)
retention basins, with a total area of approximately 65.1 hectares, which have
been identified as priority sections of the Jakarta flood management system in
need of urgent rehabilitation and improvement in flow capacities; and
transportation and disposal of materials dredged from the Project Sites in
Disposal Sites.
(b) 
Rehabilitation 
and/or construction of approximately 
42.2 kilometers of
embankments within the Project Sites and replacement or repair of mechanical
equipment as necessary.
Part 2. 
Technical assistance for project management, social safeguards and
capacity building.
(a) 
Supporting contracts management, engineering design reviews, construction
supervision, and technical assistance for implementation of the Project, including
the Resettlement Policy Framework, Resettlement Plans and the Grievance
Redress System.
(b) 
Improving institutional coordination for operation and maintenance of Jakarta's
flood management system, as well as establishing a Flood Management
Information System.
(c) 
Implementation of Resettlement Plans.
(d) 
Establishment and operation of the Grievance Redress System.
(e) 
Establishment and operation of the Panel of Experts.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements.
I1. 
Loan Proceeds to be allocated to Ministry of Public Works. The Borrower
shall allocate on a timely basis in accordance with the Borrower's budget
process the portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time in
Categories 1(a), 1(b) and (2) in the table in paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of this
Schedule 2 required for the MPW Parts of the Project to the Ministry of Public
Works.
2. 
Loan Proceeds to be on-lent to DKI. To facilitate the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall make the portion of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time in Category 1(c) in the table in paragraph 2 of
Section IV.A of this Schedule 2 required for the DKI Parts of the Project
available in Rupiah to DKI, as the Project Implementing Entity for the DKI Parts
of the Project, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
DKI, under terms and conditions agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
which shall include the obligation of DKI to:
(a) 
(i) pay the Borrower a front-end fee in an amount equal to the portion of
the Front-end Fee specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement applied to
the on-lent amount; (ii) repay the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan
over a period consistent with Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and
(iii) pay the Borrower interest on the Withdrawn Loan Balance at a
variable rate per annum equal to the rate payable by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement, subject to any request that
the Borrower may make pursuant to Section 2.07 of this Agreement,
plus a maximum of 5.02%, except as may be otherwise agreed in writing
between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(b) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with all of the
provisions of this Agreement and the Project Agreement applicable to
DKI as the Project Implementing Entity for the DKI Parts of the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions.
4. 
Counterpart Funds.
(a) 
With respect to Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall allocate
counterpart funds for the MPW Parts of the Project, and shall ensure that
DKI shall allocate counterpart funds for the DKI Parts of the Project, in
accordance with the Borrower's budget process and DKI's budget
process respectively, in each case on a timely basis and in such amount
as is necessary to ensure the completion of the Project in a manner
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) 
With respect to Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(i) Part 2(b) is financed by the Co-Financing Agreement, or in the event
that such agreement shall terminate or be insufficient for the purposes of
Part 2(b) of the Project, by another source of financing identified by the
Borrower and agreed in writing by the Bank, which may include
Borrower counterpart funds; and (ii) Part 2(c) is financed exclusively
from Borrower counterpart funds and not from the proceeds of the Loan.
B. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1 .
National Steering Committee for Water Resources. 
The Borrower shall
maintain, until completion of the Project, the National Steering Committee for
Water Resources, a high level advisory committee led by BAPPENAS. 
The
Borrower shall ensure that the National Steering Committee for Water Resources
shall, for the purposes of the Project, include representatives of BAPPENAS,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Home Affairs and
DKI.
2. 
Central Project Management Unit and Central Project Implementation
Unit.
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain, until completion of the
Project, the Central Project Management Unit in DGWR.
(i) 
The 
Central 
Project 
Management 
Unit 
shall 
comprise
representatives of DGWR, DGHS, Ministry of Public Works
Office of Planning and International Cooperation, DKI and
BAPPENAS and shall be supported by a secretariat comprised of
staff of DGWR, all with mandate, composition, staff positions
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Central Project Management
Unit is provided in a timely manner with resources adequate to
accomplish its objectives
-9-
(ii) 
The Central Project Management Unit shall oversee and
coordinate the overall Project implementation reporting and
planning functions, including the review and integration of
Project reports and Annual Work Programs, including budgets.
(b) 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain, until completion of the
Project, the Central Project Implementation Unit in DGWR.
(i) 
The Central Project Implementation Unit shall comprise at least
one (1) staff member from each of DGWR, DGHS and DKI, and
shall be supported by a secretariat comprised of staff of DGWR,
all with mandate, composition, staff positions and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower. 
The
Borrower shall ensure that the Central Project Implementation
Unit is provided in a timely manner with resources adequate to
accomplish its objectives.
(ii) 
The Central Project Implementation Unit shall be responsible for
overall coordination and management of the Project, including:
(i) coordinating implementation activities of the three (3) Project
Implementation Units; (ii) management of the Supervision
Consultant 
contract 
and 
the financial 
management 
and
procurement 
consultant 
contracts; 
(iii) 
implementation,
monitoring 
and 
evaluation 
of 
the 
Flood 
Management
Information System; and (iv) establishment of and support for
the Grievance Redress System and the Panel of Experts.
3. 
Project Implementation Units. The Borrower shall maintain, until completion
of the Project, the Project Implementation Units established in each of DGWR
and DGHS, and shall ensure that DKI shall maintain the Project Implementation
Unit established in DKI.
(a) 
Each Project Implementation Unit shall have a mandate, composition,
staff positions and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit, and
shall be made operational and provided in a timely manner with
resources adequate to accomplish its objectives.
(b) 
The Project Implementation Unit of DGWR shall be in the Regional
Office of Ciliwung-Cisadane River Basin and shall be responsible for
implementation of the Project at the DGWR Project Sites, including,
without limitation: (i) employment and management of the Works
Contractors for the DGWR Project Sites; (ii) dredging and rehabilitation
of the selected floodways, canals and retention basins;
-10-
(c) 
(iii) implementation of the Environmental Safeguards Instruments
applicable to the DGWR Project Sites; and (iv) compliance with the
Resettlement Policy Framework and any Resettlement Plan applicable to
the DGWR Project Sites.
(d) 
The Project Implementation Unit of DGHS shall be in the Directorate of
Environmental Sanitation Development and shall be responsible for
implementation of the Project at the DGHS Project Sites, including,
without limitation: (i) employment and management of the Works
Contractors for the DGHS Project Sites; (ii) dredging and rehabilitation
of the selected floodways and canals; (iii) implementation of the
Environmental Safeguards Instruments applicable to the DGHS Project
Sites; and (iv) compliance with the Resettlement Policy Framework and
any Resettlement Plan applicable to the DGHS Project Sites.
(e) 
The Project Implementation Unit of DKI shall be in the DPU-DKI and
shall be responsible for implementation of the Project at the DKI Project
Sites, including, without limitation: (i) employment and management of
the Works Contractors for the DKI Project Sites; (ii) dredging and
rehabilitation of the selected floodways and canals; (iii) implementation
of the Environmental Safeguards Instruments applicable to the DKI
Project Sites; and (iv) compliance with the Resettlement Policy
Framework and any Resettlement Plan applicable to the DKI Project
Sites.
(f) 
The Project Implementation Unit of DKI shall also be responsible for
land acquisition and resettlement in DKI, and shall also establish, prior to
the finalization and submission to the Bank of the first Resettlement
Plan, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, the
Environmental and Social Working Group and the Land Acquisition
Committee, each established with a mandate, composition, staff positions
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, through
the Central Project Implementation Unit, and each made operational and
provided in a timely manner with resources adequate to accomplish its
objectives.
(g) 
Each Project Implementation Unit shall take all action on its part to
ensure cooperation with the other Project Implementation Units
necessary to accomplish the objective of the Project.
4. 
Procurement Committees. 
The Borrower, through the Central Project
Implementation Unit, shall ensure that:
- 11 -
(a) 
each Project Implementation Unit shall establish, by no later than the
date on which the first procurement activity commences for the first
Project Site for which it is responsible in accordance with column 4 in
the table in Section 1 of the Annex 1 to this Schedule 2, and thereafter
maintain until completion of the Project, a procurement committee
responsible for overseeing all procurement at such Project Sites; and
(b) 
each such committee shall: (i) be established with a mandate, qualified
procurement staff from the relevant Project Implementation Unit and
terms of reference acceptable to the Borrower, acting through the Central
Project Implementation Unit, and the Bank; (ii) be made operational and
provided in a timely manner with resources adequate to accomplish its
objectives in accordance with the Project Operations Manual; and
(iii) implement a code of conduct acceptable to the Borrower, acting
through the Central Project Implementation Unit, and the Bank.
5. 
Project Site Offices (POSKO). The Borrower, acting through the Central
Project Implementation Unit, shall ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with
respect to the MPW Parts of the Project, and DKI with respect to the DKI Parts
of the Project to ensure that, its respective Project Implementation Unit shall:
(a) 
establish at each Project Site, as part of the implementation of the Works
Contract for each such Project Site and prior to the commencement of
any dredging or rehabilitation activities at such Project Site, a POSKO
to, among other things, act as a public information center and site-based
complaint handling unit in accordance with the Grievance Redress
System; and
(b) 
ensure that each POSKO: (i) is at all times adequately staffed, including
with representatives of the Project Implementation Unit and the Works
Contractor responsible for the Project Site; (ii) is made operational and at
all times operates in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank 
and 
the 
Borrower, 
acting 
through 
the 
Central 
Project
Implementation Unit; and (iii) is provided in a timely manner with
resources adequate to accomplish its objectives.
6. 
Institutional Arrangements for Disposal Sites.
(a) 
Arrangements with the operator of the Ancol CDF. The Borrower
shall ensure that DKI shall exercise its rights as a shareholder of PJA and
as set out in the Cooperation Agreement to accomplish the objective of
the Project, including to:
- 12 -
(i) 
ensure that the Ancol CDF is available and maintained at all
times during Project implementation to receive Dredged
Materials in accordance with or as referred to in this Agreement,
the Project Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement;
(ii) 
grant the right to the Central Project Implementation Unit, the
Project Implementation Units or their representatives (including
Works 
Contractors 
transporting 
Dredged 
Materials), 
the
Supervision Consultant and the Bank to enter PJA property to
access the Ancol CDF and to enter the Ancol CDF for the
purposes of the Project;
(iii) 
permit the Borrower, acting through the Central Project
Implementation Unit, the Project Implementation Units, the
Supervision Consultant and the Bank to monitor and supervise
the deposit of Dredged Materials at the Ancol CDF, including
cooperatively 
and jointly through 
the Jakarta Provincial
Environmental Management Agency; and
(iv) 
ensure that DKI shall, until completion of the Project, either:
(A) remain a controlling shareholder of PJA; or (B) in the event
that DKI proposes to no longer be a controlling shareholder of
PJA, put in place written institutional arrangements satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank to ensure that DKI shall be able to
cause PJA to carry out the operation and maintenance of the
Ancol CDF and to permit the entry, monitoring and supervision
by the Central Project Implementation 
Unit, the Project
Implementation Units, the Bank and the Supervision Consultant
at the Ancol CDF 
in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.
(b) 
Arrangements with the operator of the Solid Waste Disposal Site.
The Borrower shall ensure that DKI, as the entity responsible for the
Solid Waste Disposal Site, shall manage the Solid Waste Disposal Site,
including causing action to be taken under any operations and
maintenance contracts in effect from time to time, as required in order to:
(i) 
ensure that the Solid Waste Disposal Site is available at all times
during Project implementation to receive Solid Waste Materials
in accordance with or as referred to in this Agreement and the
Project Agreement;
- 13 -
(ii) 
ensure that the Solid Waste Disposal Site is at all times operated
in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Borrower,
including the license therefor;
(iii) 
grant the right to the Central Project Implementation Unit, the
Project Implementation Units or their representatives (including
Works Contractors transporting Solid Waste Materials), the
Supervision Consultant and the Bank to enter the Solid Waste
Disposal Site property for the purposes of the Project;
(iv) 
permit the Borrower, acting through the Central 
Project
Implementation Unit, the Supervision Consultant and the Bank
to monitor and supervise the deposit of Solid Waste Materials at
the Solid Waste Disposal Site, including cooperatively and
jointly 
through 
the 
Jakarta 
Provincial 
Environmental
Management Agency; and
(v) 
ensure that DKI shall, until completion of the Project, either:
(A) remain the entity in control of the Solid Waste Disposal Site;
or (B) in the event that DKI proposes to no longer be in control
of the Solid Waste Disposal Site, put in place written
institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank to ensure that Solid Waste Materials shall continue to be
deposited at the Solid Waste Disposal Site and to permit the
entry, monitoring and supervision by the Central Project
Implementation Unit, the Bank and the Supervision Consultant
at the Solid Waste Disposal Site in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
(c) 
Arrangements with the operator of the Hazardous Material Disposal
Site.
(i) 
The Borrower shall, prior to the signing of the first Works
Contract, enter into a written arrangement or understanding with
the Hazardous Material Disposal Site Operator setting out the
principle that such site will be available to receive Hazardous
Material, if any, found in relation to the Project.
(ii) 
In the event that any Hazardous Material is found at any Project
Site or with respect to any Dredged Materials or Solid Waste, the
Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation
Unit, shall ensure that DGWR and DGHS with respect to the
MPW Parts of the Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI
Parts of the Project, shall:
- 14 -
(A) 
forthwith comply with the terms of this Agreement,
including the provisions of Section I.D, including
paragraph 8 of Section I.D of this Schedule 2, and the
provisions of Section I.C, including paragraph 3 of
Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
and applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower;
(B) 
subject to compliance with the foregoing, enter into
contractual arrangements, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, with the
Hazardous 
Material 
Disposal 
Site 
Operator 
in
accordance with paragraph 8(f) of Section LD of this
Schedule 2; and
(C) 
permit the Central Project Implementation Unit, the
Project 
Implementation 
Units, 
the 
Supervision
Consultant and the Bank to inspect, from time to time,
the Hazardous Material Disposal Site.
(iii) 
Without limiting the foregoing, the Borrower, through the
Central Project Implementation Unit and/or the relevant Project
Implementation Unit, may enter into contractual arrangements to
deposit Dredged Materials other than Hazardous Material at the
Hazardous Material Disposal Site, provided that such contractual
arrangements are acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
C. 
Implementation Arrangements.
1. 
Project Operations Manual. The Borrower, acting through the Central Project
Management Unit shall ensure that the Central Project Implementation Unit and
each PIU shall:
(a) 
adopt and thereafter implement the Project in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual, including all annexes and supplements thereto,
acceptable 
to the 
Bank 
and the Borrower, 
giving 
details 
of:
(i) implementation arrangements set out in Section I of this Schedule 2,
including arrangements for procurement of the Supervision Consultant
and each Works Contractor; (ii) the requirements for the phasing of the
Project 
in Phase 
1 Project Sites 
and Phase 
2 Project 
Sites;
(iii) procurement procedures as set forth in Section III of this Schedule 2
and standard procurement documentation; (iii) reporting requirements,
financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in
Section II.B of this Schedule 2 and the related financial management
action plan; (iv) project performance indicators; (v) the Environmental
- 15 -
Safeguards Instruments; (vi) the Social Safeguards Instruments; (vii) the
Ancol Environmental 
Safeguards 
Instruments; 
(viii) maintenance
provisions for works to be carried out at each Project Site; (ix) the role
and operations of Panel of Experts; 
(x) the Governance 
and
Accountability Framework; and (xi) the operation of the Grievance
Redress System;
(b) 
not take any action to amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any
provisions of the Project Operations Manual without the prior written
agreement of the Bank and the Borrower;
(c) 
ensure that the Project Operations Manual, including all annexes and
supplements thereto, and each of the Environmental 
Safeguards
Instruments and Social Safeguards Instruments is made available, at all
times until completion of the Project, to: (i) the Supervision Consultant;
(ii) each Works Contractor; (iii) each POSKO; and (iv) upon request, all
Project Affected Persons (with respect to Resettlement Plans, the
obligation in this sub-paragraph (c) is to make available the Resettlement
Plan for any Project Site to such Works Contractor, the POSKO and the
Project Affected Person related to such Project Site);
(d) 
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, update the Project
Operations Manual, including all annexes and supplements thereto, as
necessary, at all times ensuring compliance thereof with the terms of this
Agreement; and
(e) 
in the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project
Operations Manual, including any annexes and supplements thereto, and
the provisions of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
2. 
Project Phases and Annual Work Programs. The Borrower, acting through
the Central Project Management Unit shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Project shall be implemented following the sequenced Project
implementation design in which Packages of Works Contracts, related
implementation activities and related technical assistance activities are
planned for implementation in two sequenced batches (Phase 1 and
Phase 2) by the responsible Project Implementation Units, in accordance
with the Project Operations Manual and the terms of this Agreement and
the Project Agreement;
(b) 
in each year of Project implementation, each Project Implementation
Unit shall, through the Central Project Implementation Unit:
-16-
(i) 
prepare and submit to the Central Project Management Unit and
the Bank for concurrence by no later than December 31 of the
preceding year, an Annual Work Program (based on a calendar
year), with budget, for the activities under Part 1 of the Project at
its respective Project Sites; and
(ii) 
through the Central Project Management Unit, deliver the first
such Annual Work Program to the Bank by no later than
December 31, 2012; and
(c) 
each Project Implementation Unit shall implement in a timely manner
each such Annual Work Program.
3. 
Supervision Consultant.
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Central Project Implementation Unit
shall appoint a Supervision Consultant, with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower, acting through the
Central Project Implementation Unit, and to the Bank prior to the first
Works Contract being signed by any Project Implementation Unit. The
appointment of the Supervision Consultant shall be subject to receipt by
the Borrower of a written no-objection by the Bank. The Central Project
Implementation Unit shall retain the services of a Supervision Consultant
until completion of the Project.
(b) 
The Supervision Consultant shall be responsible for supervising all
aspects of Project implementation, including, but not limited to:
(i) supervising, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the
Works 
Contracts; 
(ii) 
supervising 
the 
implementation 
of the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Plan for each Project
Site by the relevant Project Implementation Unit and Works Contractors;
(iii) supporting the Central Project Implementation Unit and DKI in the
implementation of Resettlement Plans; (iv) developing and implementing
the Grievance Redress System; (v) coordinating the Bank's review,
together with the Jakarta Provincial 
Environmental Management
Agency, of the operation of the Ancol CDF and the Offsite Sources; and
(iv) supporting financial management and procurement activities.
(c) 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit,
shall ensure that: (i) each Project Implementation Unit shall cooperate
with the Supervision Consultant; and (ii) each Project Implementation
Unit shall ensure that each Works Contract includes the obligation of the
Works Contractor to cooperate with the Supervision Consultant.
- 17 -
4. 
Completion, Maintenance and Development of Ancol CDF.
(a) 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit,
shall ensure that each PIU shall ensure that before each Works Contract
is signed for each Project Site: (i) construction of the Ancol CDF has
been completed and is being maintained in a manner fully consistent
with the Ancol Environmental Safeguards Instruments; (ii) the Ancol
CDF is completely and properly confined on all sides and intact; (iii) the
Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Jakarta Provincial
Environmental Management Agency has determined that PJA is in
compliance with the Ancol Environmental Safeguards Instruments; and
(iv) each of the Bank and the Supervision Consultant has had an
opportunity to visit, review and test the site and design of the Ancol CDF
and found it satisfactory.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause DKI to exercise its rights as a shareholder of
PJA and under the Cooperation Agreement to monitor the operation and
maintenance of the Ancol CDF and to inform the Bank and the
Supervision Consultant immediately of any occurrence that would render
or would be likely to render the Ancol CDF unfit for disposal of Dredged
Materials, 
including 
non-compliance 
with 
any 
of 
the 
Ancol
Environmental Safeguards Instruments and/or applicable Indonesian
environmental laws or regulations. Upon written notice from the Bank to
the Borrower, the Borrower shall cause some or all Project activities to
cease until there has been satisfactory resolution of such occurrence or
occurrences and the Bank has provided its written no-objection to resume
relevant activities to the Borrower, which no-objection may be provided,
when applicable, only following delivery by the Jakarta Provincial
Environmental 
Management 
Agency 
of 
suitable 
instruments
contemplated by applicable Indonesian laws and regulations.
(c) 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit,
shall ensure that, and shall cause DKI to exercise its rights as a
shareholder of.PJA and under the Cooperation Agreement to ensure that,
following deposit of all Dredged Materials and all Sand and Laterite in
the Ancol CDF:
(i) 
DKI shall obtain from PJA and shall provide to the Borrower
and to the Bank a copy of a written confirmation from PJA that
filling of the Ancol CDF has been completed in accordance with
the Ancol Environmental Safeguards Documents; and
(ii) 
the Borrower and DKI shall ensure that all development on and
use of the site of the Ancol CDF, whether industrial,
- 18 -
commercial, residential or recreational or otherwise, shall be in
accordance with a duly approved AMDAL and all other
applicable legal and regulatory requirements of the Borrower and
include, as necessary, 
land use restrictions and specific
guidelines and covenants to protect the integrity of the site,
provide proper foundations for buildings, guide installation of
underground utilities, and to limit exposure of residents and site
users to any adverse effects that may arise as a consequence of
the use of the Dredged Material.
5. 
Works Contracts. 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project
Implementation Unit, shall ensure that each PIU shall:
(a) 
prior to entering into each Works Contract for each of its respective
Project Sites, ensure that: (i) the Bank and the Supervision Consultant
has each had the opportunity to undertake the review set out in sub-
paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of paragraph 4(a) of this Section I.C; and (ii) the
relevant Project Implementation Unit has received a written no-objection
from the Bank with respect to the proposed Works Contract; and
(b) 
ensure that each Works Contract shall: (i) be on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Borrower (or to DKI with respect to the DKI Project
Sites) and the Bank; (ii) contain the obligation of the Works Contractor
to comply with the Project Operations Manual and the environmental and
social safeguards and mitigation measures set out in Section I.D,
including paragraphs 5, 6 and 16 of Section I.D of this Schedule 2;
(iii) contain the obligation that such provisions shall be applicable to any
sub-contractor, and (iv) contain the obligation that each Works
Contractor and any sub-contractor, shall at all times have sufficient
environmental and social safeguards staff and capacity and resources to
fulfill the requirements of Section I.D of this Schedule 2.
6. 
Testing and Dredging of Materials. The Borrower, acting through the Central
Project Implementation Unit, shall ensure that each PIU shall ensure that, prior
to the commencement of any dredging or rehabilitation or related activities at any
Project Site that is its respective responsibility, the applicable Works Contractor,
under the supervision of the Supervision Consultant, shall carry out testing, using
mapped and identified Sections as required by the Project Operations Manual, to
determine the quality of materials to be dredged and to identify any Hazardous
Materials in each such section. 
Any identified Hazardous Materials shall be
handled solely in accordance with paragraph 6(c) of Section I.B of this Schedule
2, paragraph 9 of this Section I.C and the provisions of Section I.D, including
paragraphs 8-9 of Section I.D of this Schedule 2.
- 19 -
7. 
Deposit of Dredged Materials. 
The Borrower, acting through the Central
Project Implementation Unit, shall ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with
respect to the MPW Parts of the Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts
of the Project, shall ensure that all Dredged Materials from each Project
Implementation Unit's respective Project Sites are deposited in the Ancol CDF in
accordance with: (a) this Agreement and the Project Agreement, including,
without limitation, paragraph 6(a) of Section I.B, paragraph 4 of this Section IC
and the provisions of Section I.D, including paragraphs 10-12 of Section I.D of
this Schedule 2, and paragraph 4(a) of Section I.A, paragraphs 3 and 6 of Section
I.B and the provisions of Section I.C, including paragraph 4-5 of the Section I.C
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; (B) the Ancol Environmental
Safeguards Instruments; and (C) all applicable Indonesian environmental laws
and regulations.
8. 
Disposal of Solid Waste. The Borrower, acting through the Central Project
Implementation Unit, shall ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with respect
to the MPW Parts of the Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts of the
Project, shall ensure that all Solid Waste is deposited only in the Solid Waste
Disposal Site in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6(b) of Section I B
and Section I.D of this Schedule 2, and paragraph 4(b) of Section I.A, paragraph
7 of Section I.B and the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
9. 
Disposal of Hazardous Material (if any). The Borrower, acting through the
Central Project Implementation Unit, shall ensure that each of DGWR and
DGHS, with respect to the MPW Parts of the Project, and DKI, with respect to
the DKI Parts of the Project, shall ensure that each of its respective Project
Implementation Units shall cause any and all Hazardous Material, whether
identified through testing in accordance with paragraph 7 of this Section I.C or
paragraph 8 of Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement or
otherwise, to be deposited only in the Hazardous Material Disposal Site in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.D, including paragraph 8 of Section
I.D of this Schedule 2 and the provisions of Section I.C, including paragraph 3
of Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
10. 
Flood Management Information System. 
The Borrower, acting through the
Central Project Implementation Unit, shall ensure that, as the Project is
implemented, the works, changes, and upgrades to the flood management system
resulting from the Project shall be input into the Flood Management Information
System.
- 20 -
11. 
Project Information Dissemination and Community Relations.
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Central Project Implementation Unit
shall maintain the Project Website for public communications and
information dissemination purposes, including, without limitation, the
publication of the Project Operations Manual, procurement and
contracting activities for all Project Sites, the Resettlement Policy
Framework, 
the 
Resettlement 
Plans, the Environmental 
Impact
Assessments, 
Management 
Plans 
and 
Monitoring 
Plans, 
the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Framework, the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Plans, the Traffic
Management Plans, and materials explaining the Grievance Redress
System, including in accordance with paragraph 12 of this Section I.C.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause DKI to include on the DKI Website, or
through a link to the Project Website, the Project Operations Manual,
procurement and contracting activities, the Environmental and Social
Safeguards 
Management 
Framework, 
the 
Resettlement 
Policy
Framework, 
all 
Resettlement 
Plans, 
the 
Environmental 
Impact
Assessments, Management Plans and Monitoring Plans for the DKI Parts
of the Project, the Environmental and Social Safeguards Management
Plans for the DKI Parts of the Project, the Traffic Management Plans for
the DKI Parts of the Project, and materials explaining the Grievance
Redress System, including in accordance with paragraph 12 of this
Section I.C and paragraph 11 of Section I.B of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
(c) 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit,
shall ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with respect to the MPW
Parts of the Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts of the
Project, shall ensure that each POSKO at its respective Project Sites shall
make available at no cost to the public the following: 
the Project
Operations 
Manual, 
the 
Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework; 
the
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Safeguards 
Management 
Framework,
procurement and contracting activity information related to the Project
Site, the Resettlement Plans, if any, related to the Project Site, the
Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan and Monitoring
Plan related to the Project Site, the Environmental and Social Safeguards
Management Plans related to the Project Site, the Traffic Management
Plans related to the Project Site, and materials explaining the Grievance
Redress System, including in accordance with paragraph 12 of this
Section I.C.
-21 -
(d) 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit,
shall ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with respect to the MPW
Parts of the Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts of the
Project, shall ensure that each of its respective Project Sites is clearly
marked with signs as a Project Site in order to facilitate the dissemination
of information about the Project and reduce the opportunities for
confusion among community members as to which activities undertaken
by DKI, DGWR, DGHS or any other entity of the Borrower in Jakarta
are Project activities and which activities are not Project activities.
12. 
Grievance Redress System. The Borrower, acting through the Central Project
Implementation Unit, shall, and shall cause DKI to:
(a) 
provide at all times until completion of the Project on the Project
Website and the DKI Website and at each POSKO and at each Linked
Site, information about DKI's existing complaints handling systems;
(b) 
establish by no later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date and in
any event prior to the commencement of the first Works Contract and
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, the independent
Project Grievance Redress System, acceptable to the Borrower, acting
through the Central Project Implementation Unit, and the Bank, that (i) is
designed to track complaints regarding the Project, including with
respect to any Linked Sites; guide resolution of such complaints; and
track and publicize resolution of such complaints; and (ii) has a timetable
and budget, including adequate and timely provision of counterpart funds
required for the Project;
(c) 
ensure that any complaints made through DKI's existing complaints
handling systems are transferred to, reported as part of, and may be
brought at any time to the Grievance Redress System;
(d) 
provide, promptly as needed, all resources necessary for the Grievance
Redress System to operate as required by this Agreement, the Project
Agreement, the Project Operations Manual and the Resettlement Policy
Framework;
(e) 
publicize the Grievance Redress System on the Project Website, the DKI
Website, at each POSKO and at community meetings at each Project
Site;
(f) 
ensure that each POSKO, at all times after the establishment of the
Grievance Redress System until completion of the Project, includes staff
in adequate numbers and with composition and terms of reference and
- 22 -
sufficient resources assigned specifically to operate the Grievance
Redress System;
(g) 
include in each Project Report, a report on Grievance Redress System
cases, resolutions, challenges, staffing and budget and other resources
required; and
(h) 
publicize all cases brought to the Grievance Redress System on the
Project Website, the DKI Website and at each POSKO (with respect to
cases related to the Project Site where such POSKO is located).
13. 
Exchange of Information with Regard to Dredging and Embankment
Rehabilitation Activities outside of Project Sites or Linked Sites. 
The
Borrower shall cause each of the Ministry of Public Works and DKI to inform
the Central Project Implementation Unit, the Bank and the Supervision
Consultant about all dredging and/or embankment rehabilitation or related
activities, including any land acquisition or resettlement, that it plans to
undertake in any areas adjacent to or contiguous with any Project Sites and on or
adjacent to or contiguous with any Linked Sites: (a) on an annual planning basis
by providing a written list of all such planned activities in the upcoming twelve
(12) months by no later than October 31 of the year preceding such planned
activities; and (b) by providing written notification of each such activity no less
than fourteen (14) days prior to the Ministry of Public Works or DKI, as
applicable, commencing such activities. The Borrower shall cause each of the
Ministry of Public Works and DKI to ensure that each such activity is clearly
distinguished from any Project Sites in signage and Ministry of Public Works or
DKI communication, and shall provide the Bank and the Supervision Consultant
with an opportunity to visit the site of each such activity and with such
information with respect to such activities as the Bank may from time to time
request.
14. 
Panel of Experts. The Borrower, through the Central Project Implementation
Unit, shall:
(a) 
establish, prior to the commencement of any activities under the first
Works Contract, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project,
the Panel of Experts to advise on all aspects of the Project, including, but
not limited to the environmental and social safeguards requirements set
out in Section I.D of this Schedule 2, comprising at least three experts,
including an environmental expert, an engineer experienced in dredging
and dredge disposal and an urban resettlement expert, in each case with
expertise and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
- 23 -
(b) 
if required by the Borrower and/or the Bank, enlarge the Panel of Experts
on a temporary or permanent basis by the addition of specialists to
provide expertise for specific, unplanned or critical issues or needs,
which may arise during Project implementation, in each case with terms
of reference agreed in writing among the Central Project Implementation
Unit, the Bank, and the three initial experts that comprise of Panel of
Experts;
(c) 
ensure that the Panel of Experts shall convene at regular intervals
acceptable to the Central Project Implementation Unit, the Bank and the
experts on the Panel of Experts to review the status of work in progress;
and shall convene special extraordinary meetings as necessary to review
particular critical stages of technical, environmental, and social activities
of Project implementation;
(d) 
ensure that the Central Project Implementation Unit, each Project
Implementation 
Unit, 
each 
Works 
Contractor, 
the 
Supervision
Consultant and all other consultants shall cooperate with all requests of
the Panel of Experts; and
(e) 
provide financial and administrative support and cooperation necessary
for the Panel of Experts to carry out its functions in accordance with its
terms of reference.
D. 
Safeguards
General Provisions
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit,
shall ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with respect to the MPW
Parts of the Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts of the
Project, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Environmental Safeguards Instruments, the Social
Safeguards Instruments and the Ancol Environmental Safeguards
Instruments.
(b) 
Except as the Bank, the Borrower and DKI (with respect to the DKI Parts
of the Project only) shall otherwise agree in writing, none of the
Borrower or DKI, nor any of their respective agencies shall assign,
amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended,
abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of the
Environmental Safeguards Instruments, the Social Safeguards Instruments or the
- 24 -
Ancol Environmental Safeguards Instruments and the provisions of this
Agreement or the Project Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement or the
Project Agreement, as applicable, shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower, through the Central Project Implementation Unit, shall facilitate
the work of the Panel of Experts referred to in paragraph 14 of Section LC of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement specifically with respect to monitoring and
evaluation of the implementation of the Environmental Safeguards Instruments,
the Ancol Environmental Safeguards Documents and the Social Safeguards
Instruments and the Grievance Redress System and shall advise the Central
Project Implementation Unit on actions to be taken to improve compliance.
4. 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Management Unit, shall ensure
that each of DGWR and DGHS, with respect to the MPW Parts of the Project,
and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts of the Project, shall take all measures
necessary on its part regularly to collect, compile, and submit to the Bank, as part
of the Project Reports, information on the status of compliance with the
Environmental Safeguards Instruments, the Social Safeguards Instruments and
the Ancol Environmental Safeguards Instruments, giving details of: (a) measures
taken in furtherance of such instruments; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or
threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of such plans; and
(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
Provisions Specific to the Environmental Safeguards Instruments
5. 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit, shall
ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with respect to the MPW Parts of the
Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts of the Project, shall:
(a) 
for each Phase I Project Site:
(i) 
prior to commencing any activities under any Works Contract or
otherwise carrying out any activities in any Phase 1 Project Site:
(A) 
prepare with the Works Contractor and the Supervision
Consultant the Environmental and Social Safeguards
Management Plan and the Traffic Management Plan for
such Phase 
1 Project Site, 
as required 
by the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management
Framework; and
(B) 
submit each such plan to the Bank for review and
receive from the Bank its written no-objection thereto;
- 25 -
(ii) 
thereafter 
undertake 
dredging, 
rehabilitation 
and 
related
activities in each Phase 1 Project Site in accordance with: the
Phase 1 Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan
and Monitoring Plan, the Environmental Impact Assessment
Supplementary Report, the Environmental and Social Safeguards
Management 
Framework, 
the 
Environmental 
and 
Social
Safeguards Management Plan for each Project Site and the
Traffic Management Plan for each Project Site; and implement
all actions required to be taken by the Borrower, the Central
Project 
Implementation 
Unit 
or 
the 
respective 
Project
Implementation Unit with respect to the foregoing until
completion of the Project in a timely manner satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b) 
for each Phase 2 Project Site:
(i) 
prior to commencing any activities under any Works Contract or
otherwise carrying out any activities in any Phase 2 Project Site:
(A) 
prepare and obtain the approval of the Jakarta Provincial
Environmental Management Agency for the Phase 2
Environment Impact Assessment, Management Plan and
Monitoring Plan;
(B) 
prepare with the Works Contractor and the Supervision
Consultant, the Environmental and Social Safeguards
Management Plan and the Traffic Management Plan for
such Project Site, as required by the Environmental and
Social 
Safeguards 
Management 
Framework 
and
acceptable to the Bank;
(C) 
submit each 
such Phase 
2 
Environment 
Impact
Assessment, Management Plan and Monitoring Plan and
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Plan
and the Traffic Management Plan to the Bank for review
and receive from the Bank its written no-objection
thereto; and
(D) 
make each such plan publicly available on the Project
Website, the DKI Website (for the DKI Parts of the
Project) and at the relevant POSKO; and
(ii) 
thereafter 
undertake 
dredging, 
rehabilitation 
and 
related
activities in each Phase 2 Project Site in accordance with: the
- 26 -
Phase 2 Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan
and Monitoring Plan, the Environmental Impact Assessment
Supplementary Report, the Environmental and Social Safeguards
Management 
Framework, 
the 
Environmental 
and 
Social
Safeguards Management Plan for such Project Site and the
Traffic Management Plan for such Project Site; and implement
all actions required to be taken by the Borrower, the Central
Project 
Implementation 
Unit 
or 
the 
respective 
Project
Implementation Unit with respect to the foregoing until
completion of the Project, in each case in a timely manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
6. 
The Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit, shall
ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with respect to the MPW Parts of the
Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts of the Project, shall: ensure that
each Works Contract required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall include the obligation of each respective Works
Contractor to implement, monitor and evaluate the application of the Project
Operations Manual, the Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Plan,
the Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan and Monitoring Plan,
the Environmental Impact Assessment Supplementary Report, the Traffic
Management Plan and the procedures for dealing with Hazardous Material
applicable to the Project Site that is the subject of such Works Contract, in each
case in accordance with the terms of such plans and in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank and the Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation
Unit.
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the following are financed exclusively out of its
own resources or .the resources of DKI and not out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and provide, promptly as needed, all resources needed for this purpose: 
the
preparation of AMDALs for all Project Sites.
Provisions Specific to Hazardous Materials
8. 
In the event that any Hazardous Material is found at any time to exist at a Project
Site or with respect to any Dredged Materials or any Solid Waste Materials,
either as a result of the testing required pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section I.C of
this Schedule 2 or otherwise, the Borrower, acting through the Central Project
Implementation Unit, shall ensure that each of DGWR and DGHS, with respect
to the MPW Parts of the Project, and DKI, with respect to the DKI Parts of the
Project, shall:
(a) 
immediately cease all activity at the Section of such Project Site where
such Hazardous Material was found;
- 27 -
(b) 
immediately provide written notice to the Bank with details of the
location and the content of such Hazardous Material;
(c) 
immediately take all action necessary to comply with applicable laws and
regulations of the Borrower;
(d) 
immediately ensure that the Section shall be marked as a hazardous site
and the Hazardous Material shall be left in situ until arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower are made for their safe
disposal;
(e) 
ensure that no Hazardous Materials shall be deposited in the Ancol CDF
or at any other site except a Hazardous Materials Disposal Site in
accordance with this Section I.D;
(f) 
take all action required on its respective part to enter into an agreement,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, with
the Hazardous Material Disposal Site Operator for the disposal of such
Hazardous Material by the date which is no later than the earlier of five
(5) days after the Hazardous Material is found or the date which is the
deadline for arranging disposal of Hazardous Materials in effect at such
time under the laws and regulations of the Borrower, except as may be
otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank;
(g) 
thereafter, ensure that the Hazardous Materials shall be transported only
to the Hazardous Material Disposal Site in accordance with the
procedures set out in the Project Operations Manual, this Agreement and
the foregoing agreement with the Hazardous Material Disposal Site
Operator; and
(h) 
ensure that each agreement referred to in sub-paragraph (f) shall include
the right of the Bank to inspect, from time to time, the Hazardous
Material Site and the obligation of the Hazardous Material Site Operator
to provide to the Borrower and the Bank such information as the
Borrower or the Bank may from time to time request concerning the
deposit of the Hazardous Materials and the operation of the Hazardous
Material Disposal Site.
9. 
In the event that any Hazardous Material is found to exist at the Ancol CDF after
deposit of Dredged Materials or during the later development of the Ancol CDF
by PJA or any other developer, the Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause DKI as
a shareholder of PJA to ensure that PJA takes all action necessary to comply
with: (a) the terms of this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Operations
- 28 -
Manual to the extent that they remain applicable; and (b) the laws and regulations
of the Borrower with respect to such Hazardous Materials.
Provisions Specific to the Ancol CDF
10. 
The Borrower shall take all actions necessary on its part to: (a) ensure that the
Ancol CDF is designed, constructed operated and maintained in accordance with
the Ancol Environmental Safeguards Instruments; and (b) cause the Jakarta
Provincial Environment Management Agency to enable the Bank to monitor the
operations at Ancol CDF (including the environmental mitigation activities),
including cooperatively and jointly through the Jakarta Provincial Environmental
Management Agency.
11. 
The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to cause DKI to exercise
its rights as a shareholder of PJA and under the Cooperation Agreement to cause
PJA to: (a) implement the requirements (including mitigation measures) of the
Ancol Environmental Safeguards Instruments; (b) allow the Central Project
Implementation Unit, the Supervision Consultant and representatives of the Bank
to enter PJA property and to have access to the Ancol CDF and to monitor and
supervise the operations at Ancol CDF and the Offsite Sources (including the
environmental mitigation activities), including cooperatively and jointly through
the Jakarta Provincial Environmental Management Agency; (c) provide such
documentation and other information concerning the Ancol CDF site as the Bank
may reasonably request; (d) provide to the Bank and the Supervision Consultant
a copy of each of PJA's quarterly environmental management reports (RKL) and
environmental monitoring reports (RPL) on the Ancol CDF and such other
information as the Bank may reasonably request, until completion of the Project
and thereafter for so long as the Bank may reasonably request; and (e) handle any
Hazardous Material only in accordance with paragraphs 8-9 of this Section I.D.
12. 
The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to cause DKI to exercise
its rights as shareholder of PJA and under the Cooperation Agreement to ensure
that only materials meeting the requirements of the Ancol Environmental
Safeguards Instruments shall be deposited in the Ancol CDF.
Provisions Specific to Land Acquisition and Resettlement
13. 
The Borrower shall ensure that DKI remains the entity duly authorized and
responsible 
for 
land 
acquisition 
and 
resettlement, 
compensation 
and
rehabilitation or other assistance in connection with the Project on all Project
Sites during Project implementation.
14. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall take all actions necessary on its part to coordinate
with DKI with respect to the acquisition of land required for the purposes
- 29 -
of the Project and to enable DKI to complete the acquisition of land and
all rights to use related thereto required for the Project Implementation
Units to carry out the dredging, rehabilitation and related activities under
Part 1 of the Project and to comply with, the provisions of this Section
I.D and Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to ensure that
DGWR and DGHS cooperate with DKI in the acquisition of land and to
comply with to comply with the provisions of this Section I.D and
Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
15. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the following are financed exclusively out of
its own resources or DKI's resources and not out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(b) provide, promptly as needed, the resources needed for this purpose: (i) all
land and land use rights required for the purposes of the Project, whether at a
Project Site or a Linked Site; (ii) all resettlement and rehabilitation compensation
and other assistance to Project Affected Persons in accordance with all
Resettlement Plans and the Resettlement Policy Framework, whether at a Project
Site or a Linked Site; and (c) all activities related to implementation of the
Grievance Redress System, except for the assistance of the Supervision
Consultant and the Panel of Experts which shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
16. 
Project Site Resettlement Plans. The Borrower shall ensure that DGWR and
DGHS shall cooperate with DKI to, and shall cause DKI to:
(a) 
apply the Resettlement Policy Framework to each Project Site, including
to determine whether there are any Project Affected Persons at such
Project Site;
(b) 
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any
involuntary relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, assets, or access
to assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily
or permanently on any Project Site;
(c) 
make the Resettlement Policy Framework available to the public at each
POSKO, on the Project Website, on the DKI Website, at the office of the
Central Project Implementation Unit, at the office of each Project
Implementing Unit and at the office of each Works Contractor;
(d) 
with respect to each Project Site at which Project Affected Persons have
been identified in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework,
before commencing any land acquisition or resettlement or beginning
- 30-
any works or any preparation for works on any such Project Site which is
a DKI Project Site, or before the Borrower shall permit DGWR or DGHS
to begin any works or any preparation activities for works on any Project
Site which is a DGWR Project Site or a 
DGHS Project Site,
respectively:
(i) 
prepare in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework,
a draft Resettlement Plan, with a timetable and budget, including
adequate and timely provision of counterpart funds;
(ii) 
carry out consultations on such draft Resettlement Plan in
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework and take
such consultations 
into 
consideration 
in finalizing 
such
Resettlement Plan;
(iii) 
submit such Resettlement Plan to the Bank for no-objection and
receive 
from the Bank its written no-objection on such
Resettlement Plan;
(iv) 
provide a copy of such Resettlement Plan to the Supervision
Consultant;
(v) 
publicize such Resettlement Plan at the POSKO for the relevant
Project Site and on the Project Website and the DKI Website;
(vi) 
ensure that all Project Affected Persons shall have been fully
compensated and provided with all applicable resettlement and
rehabilitation benefits and other assistance in accordance with
the provisions of such Resettlement Plan and the Resettlement
Policy Framework, and provide documentation thereof in each
monthly and quarterly report on Resettlement 
Plans in
accordance with paragraph 18 of this Section I.D and each
Project Report; and
(e) 
ensure that independent appraisal, consultation and grievance redress
mechanisms in each Resettlement Plan and any recommendations of the
Panel of Experts are implemented, recorded and reported in a timely
manner and in accordance with the terms of the Resettlement Plan and
the Resettlement Policy Framework during implementation of the
Project.
17. 
Linked Site Resettlement Plans. 
With respect to each Linked Site, the
Borrower shall ensure that DGWR and DGHS shall cooperate with DKI to, and
-31-
shall cause DKI, as the entity with responsibility for land acquisition and
resettlement in Jakarta, to:
(a) 
apply the Resettlement Policy Framework to all Linked Sites with any
dredging, rehabilitation or other canal, floodway or embankment-related
activities, including to determine whether there are any Project Affected
Persons at such Linked Site;
(b) 
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any
involuntary relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, assets, or access
to assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily
or permanently on any such Linked Site;
(c) 
make the Resettlement Policy Framework available to the public at each
such Linked Site;
(d) 
with respect to any such Linked Site with Project Affected Persons
during Project implementation, before commencing any land acquisition
or resettlement or beginning any activities described in sub-paragraph (a)
above on any such Linked Site:
(i) 
prepare in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework,
a draft Resettlement Plan with a timetable and budget, including
adequate and timely provision of counterpart funds;
(ii) 
carry out consultations on such draft Resettlement Plan in
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework and take
such 
consultations 
into consideration 
in finalizing 
such
Resettlement Plan;
(iii) 
submit such Resettlement Plan to the Bank for no-objection and
receive from the Bank its written no-objection on such
Resettlement Plan;
(iv) 
provide a copy of such Resettlement Plan to the Supervision
Consultant
(v) 
publicize such Resettlement Plan at such Linked Site and on the
Project Website and the DKI Website; and
(vi) 
ensure that all Project Affected Persons shall have been fully
compensated and provided with all applicable resettlement and
rehabilitation benefits in accordance with the provisions of such
Resettlement Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework and
- 32 -
provide documentation thereof at the relevant POSKO, in each
monthly and quarterly report on Resettlement 
Plans in
accordance with paragraph 18 of this Section I.D and each
Project Report; and
(e) 
ensure that independent appraisal, consultation and grievance redress
mechanisms in each Resettlement Plan and any recommendations of the
Panel of Experts are implemented, recorded and reported in a timely
manner and in accordance with the terms of the Resettlement Plan and
the Resettlement Policy Framework during implementation of the
Project.
18. 
Without limitation on the generality of paragraph 4 of this Section I.D, the DKI
Project Implementation Unit shall provide to the Central Project Management
Unit and the Bank monthly reports on the implementation of all Resettlement
Plans, which shall be included in the quarterly Project Reports referred to in
Section II of this Agreement.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Action Plan.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators agreed in writing
between the Borrower and the Bank. Each such Project Report shall cover the
period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Report shall include: (a) from the
Central Project Management Unit: (i) progress reports on the Annual Work
Program of each Project Implementation Unit; (ii) procurement progress;
(iii) challenges, proposed solutions and assistance required; (iv) updated project
cost estimates, procurement plan and implementation schedule; and (v) updated
progress 
on Performance 
Indicators; 
and 
(b) from the 
DKI Project
Implementation Unit: reports on the implementation of the Resettlement Plans.
3. 
The Borrower, through the Central Project Management Unit, shall prepare,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by no
- 33 -
later than the second anniversary of this Agreement (except as may be otherwise
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in writing), a mid-term report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section II.A, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such review and the
Bank's views on the matter.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of each calendar quarter interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months.after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1I 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
- 34 -
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following 
additional
procedures set out in Annex 2 to this Schedule
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality Based Selection
(b) Least-Cost Selection
(c) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(d) Single-Source Selection
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
- 35 -
). 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works under Part 1 of the Project
(1)(a) Works under Part 1 of the 
42,400,000 
80%
Project for the DGWR Project Sites
(1)(b) Works 
under Part 1 of the 
17,800,000 
80%
Project for the DGHS Project Sites
(1)(c) Works 
under Part 1 of the 
69,340,000 
67%
Project for the DKI Project Sites
(2) Consultants Services, Goods and 
10,100,000 
100%
Non-Consulting Services under Parts
2(a), 2(d) and Part 2(e) of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
139,640,000
- 36 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2017.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings.
1. 
The Borrower represents and warrants that each of DKI, DGWR and DGHS shall
at all times during Project implerientation, maintain all legal and regulatory
authority necessary to carry out its respective obligations under this Agreement
and the Project Agreement.
2. 
To the extent decided by final judgment of a court or arbitration or other body
that the Bank is liable for any losses, claims, damages, awards, penalties, or
liability incurred which arise from any claim by any third party arising out of the
execution of the Project or any action taken by PJA or related to any
development at the Ancol CDF, then subject to the aforesaid final judgment the
Borrower shall indemnify and hold harmless the Bank with respect to all such
liability. This provision shall not be limited by Section 9.05 of the General
Conditions.
ANNEX 1 to SCHEDULE 2
Section 1. Project Sites, Project Phases, Works Contract Packages and Responsible Project
Implementation Units
Column 1: 
Column 2: 
Column 3: 
Column 4:
Works 
Project Site Name 
Project Site Location* 
Responsible Project
Contract 
Approximate 
Approximate 
Approximate 
Location 
Implementation Unit
Package o 
length (m) 
width (m) 
area (m
2 or 
Coordinates 
/ Related Part of the
ha) 
(WGS 84)** 
Project
Phase 1
1 
Ciliwung-Gunung Sahari 
5,100 
21.50- 
171,870 m 
from 48M 702 674 
DKI Project Sites
Floodway 
45.90 
m E, 931 7919 m S 
(DKI Part of the
to 48M 702 501 m 
Project)
E, 932 2469 mS
Waduk Melati (Kali Gresik and 
(2,004) 
-
4.90 ha. 
48M 701 173 m E,
Cideng Hulu) 
(1,260) 
931 4570 m S
2a 
Cengkareng 
Floodway 
7,840 (540) 
38.00~ 
490,00 0 
from 48M 693 543 
DGWR Project Sites
(including sea side) 
87.00 
m E, 931 7587 m S 
11'% %'.LfI of the
to 48M 693 748 m 
Project)
E, 932 5466 mS
2b 
Lower Sunter Hoodway 
9,980 
20.20- 
338,320 m 
from 48M 709 909 
DGWR Project Sites
47.40 
m E, 931 6807 m S 
(MPW Part of the
to 48M 711 015 m 
Project)
E, 932 4383 mS
Phase 2
3 
Cideng Thamrin Drain (Round 
3,840 (1,960) 
10.00- 
55.680 M2 
from 48M 701 462 
DGHS Project Sites
Road drain) 
19.00 
m E, 931 5022 m S 
(MPW Part of the
to 48M 700 392 m 
Project)
E, 931 7488 m S
4 
Sentiong-Sunter 
Drain 
5,950 (400) 
16.10- 
161,240 m- 
from 48M 704 933 
DKI Project Sites
(including Ancol Canal) 
31.20 
m E, 931 7153 m S 
(DKI Part of the
to 48M 705 163 m 
Project)
E, 932 2503 mS
Waduk Sunter 
Utara 
(outlet 
(570) 
-
33.00 ha. 
48M 706 757 m E,
drain) 
932 2450 m S
Waduk Sunter Selatan 
-
-
19.20 ha. 
48M 706 552 m E,
932 0062 mS
Waduk Sunter Timur III 
-
-
8.00 ha. 
48M 709 879 m E,
932 2542 m S
5 
Tanjungan Drain 
600 
9.20 -
10,560 m' 
from 48M 690 497 
DGHS Project Sites
26.00 
m E, 9324161 mS 
(MPW Part of the
to 48M 691 024 m 
Project)
E, 9324644 m S
Lower Angke Drain 
4,050 
31.00- 
166,050 m 
from 48M 695 478
51.00 
m E, 9318801 mS
to 48M 696 390 m
E, 932 2730 mS
6 
West Banjir Canal (sea side) 
3,060 (590) 
33.00 -
266,220 m- 
from 48M 696 390 
DGWR Project Sites
41.00 
m E, 932 2730 mS 
(MPW Part of the
to 48M 695 518 m 
Project)
E, 932 5394 mS
Upper Sunter Floodway 
5,150 
15.00- 
131,320 m 
from 48M 709 754
36.00 
m E, 931 2931 mS
to 48M 709 909 m
E, 931_6807 m S
38
ANNEX 1 to SCHEDULE 2, continued
7 
Grogol-Sekretaris Drain 
2,970 
21.00- 
106,920 m 
from 48M 697 787 
DKI Project Sites
51.00 
m E, 931 7987 m S 
(DKI Part of the
to 48M 695 478 m 
Project)
E, 931 8801 m S
Pakin-Kali Besar-Jelakeng Drain 
4,910 
13.00~ 
108,020 m2 
from 48M 700 332
31.00 
m E, 932 0615 mS
to 48M 699 421 m
E, 932 2643 mS
Krukut Cideng Drain 
3,250 
15.00- 
71,500 m' 
from 48M 700 392
29.00 
m E, 9317488 mS
to 48M 700 332 m
E, 932 0615 mS
Krukut Lama Drain 
3,490 
7.00- 
62,820 m' 
from 48M 701 053
29.00 
m E, 9316349 mS
to 48M 700 389 m
.
E, 9319084 m S
*Approxtimate length, width, area and coordinates may vary without an amendment to this Agreement provided that the variance is
within and in accordance with the terms of a Works Contract for which the Bank has issued a no-objection letter. See also the map in
Sectia 3 of this Annex.
** WGS 84 refers to World Geodetic System 84, a reference coordinate system.
Section 2. Linked Sites
Approximate length (m) 
Location Coordinates (WGS
Linked Sites 
I area (ha)* 
84)**
Linked to the Sentiong Sunter Drain:
1. Kali Item 
780 m 
from 48M 705 214 m E, 932 2354 m
S to 48M 704 486 m E, 932 2317 m
S
2. Kalibaru 
1,450 m 
from 48M 704 199 m E, 931 7101 m
S to 48M 704 985 m E, 931 8244 m
S
3. Sunter Kemayoran 
2,730 m 
from 48M 708 138 m E, 931 8453 m
S to 48M 705 692 m E, 931 9264 m
S
Linked to Ciliwung-Gunung Sahari:
4. Ancol Kampung Bandan 
1,330 m 
from 48M 701 232 m E, 932 1892 m
S to 48M 702 548 m E, 932 2037 m
S
5. Ancol Long Storage 
1,550 m 
from 48M 704 114 m E, 932 2314 m
S to 48M 702 594 m E, 932 2045 m
S
Linked to the Upper Sunter Floodway:
6. Canal along Jalan Kayu Putih Timur 
2,950 m 
from 48M 708 158 m E, 931
5540 mS to 48M 710 141 m E,
9316666 mS
Linked 
to 
Pakin-Kali 
Besar-Jelakeng
Drain:
7. Anak K. Ciliwung Utara 
2,075 m 
from 48M 701 201 m E, 932 0954 m
S to 48M 700 242 mn E, 932 2322 mn
S
8. Canal along Jalan Tubagus Angke 
1,780 m 
from 48M 698 302 m E, 932 0676 m
S to 48M 700 057 mn E, 932 0811 mn
S
9. PHB Bandengan Utara 
1,530 m 
from 48M 698 437 m E, 932 1296
mS to 48M 699 995 m E, 932 1436
_ mS
10. Waduk Pluit 
80 ha. 
48M 699 144 m E, 932 3577 m S
*Approximate length, area and coordinates may vary without an amendment to this Agreement, subject to prior written
concurrence of the Bank. See also the map in Section 3 of this Annex.
** WGS 84 refers to World Geodetic System 84, a reference coordinate system.
39
ANNEX 1 to SCHEDULE 2, continued
Section 3. Map
ATTACHED AT END OF DOCUMENT
40
ANNEX 2 to SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of
the Pelelangan Umum 
(Public 
Tendering) 
and 
Pemilihan Langsung / 
Pelelangan
Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods as set forth in the Borrower's Presidential Regulation
No. 54/2010, with the modifications set out below in order to ensure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan
Sederhana method shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in said
Regulation. 
In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and these
modifications, the latter shall govern.
1. 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.14 (Fraud and Corruption) of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud
and corruption as defined in paragraph 1.14(a) of said Guidelines and the contract
provisions set out in paragraph 1.14(e) of said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required,
a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given
reasonable time for registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint
venture or sub-contract part of the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as
a condition for submitting bids or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be
made available, by mail or in person, to all international bidders who are willing to pay
the required fee.
3. 
No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. 
Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21)
days from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding
documents, whichever is later, to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10)
days under the Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5. 
Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope
and evaluated using post-qualification.
6. 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's
estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7. 
Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or guarantee
from a reputable bank or other reputable financial institution and shall without exception
follow the form provided for this purpose in the bidding documents.
8. 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
41
9. 
Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate in bidding
only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law, and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-borrower.
42
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
March 1, 2021 
2.17
September 1, 2021 
2.22
March 1, 2022 
2.28
September 1, 2022 
2.34
March 1, 2023 
2.40
September 1, 2023 
2.46
March 1, 2024 
2.52
September 1, 2024 
2.58
March 1, 2025 
2.64
September 1, 2025 
2.71
March 1, 2026 
2.78
September 1, 2026 
2.85
March 1, 2027 
2.92
September 1, 2027 
2.99
March 1, 2028 
3.07
September 1, 2028 
3.14
March 1, 2029 
3.22
September 1, 2029 
3.30
March 1, 2030 
3.38
September 1, 2030 
3.47
March 1, 2031 
3.56
September 1, 2031 
3.65
March 1, 2032 
3.74
September 1, 2032 
3.83
March 1, 2033 
3.93
September 1, 2033 
4.02
March 1, 2034 
4.12
43
September 1, 2034 
4.23
March 1, 2035 
4.33
September 1, 2035 
4.44
March 1, 2036 
4.71
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
44
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
45
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"AMDAL" means Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, the Borrower's term for an
environmental impact assessment, managing and monitoring process and its related
documentation under Law No.32 of 2009 regarding Environmental Protection and
Management.
2. 
"Ancol CDF" means the contained disposal facility in Jakarta Bay, designated on the map
in Section 3 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, consisting of approximately
119 hectares of land reclaimed or to be reclaimed and a confining dyke approximately 2
kilometers long and 800 meters wide, owned, designed, constructed, maintained and
operated by PJA in accordance with the Ancol Environmental Impact Assessment,
Management Plan and Monitoring Plan and the Ancol Supplementary Report, and to
which the Project Implementation Units shall deliver Dredged Materials from the Project
Sites to PJA for deposit in such Ancol CDF in accordance with the Cooperation
Agreement.
3. 
"Ancol Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan and Monitoring Plan
(AMDAL)" means the impact assessment, management plan and monitoring plan for the
Ancol CDF, prepared by PJA, approved by the Jakarta Provincial Environmental
Management Agency on February 6, 2006 and March 30, 2009 (it being understood that
to the extent there may be a conflict between the terms of the two such dated documents,
the terms of the later document shall prevail) and disclosed on January 26, 2011, referred
to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional
measures, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be implemented
by PJA in the Ancol CDF, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance
positive impacts and consisting of:
(a) 
the environmental impact assessment, dated February 6, 2006;
(b) 
the Environment Management Plan (RKL), dated February 6, 2006;
(c) 
the Environment Monitoring Plan (RPL) dated February 6, 2006;
(d) 
the Ancol Updated Environment Management Plan (RKL) and Environment
Monitoring Plan (RPL) dated March 30, 2009; and
(e) 
all schedules and annexes to such assessments and plans;
in each case as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
4. 
"Ancol Environmental 
Safeguards Instruments" 
means, collectively, 
the Ancol
Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan and Monitoring Plan (AMDAL)
46
and the Ancol Supplementary Report, as the same may be modified from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.
5. 
"Ancol Supplementary Report" means the supplementary Environment Management Plan
and Monitoring Plan (RKL/RPL) prepared by PJA, dated September 2011 and disclosed
on November 2, 2011, setting out the additional measures which PJA will implement to
mitigate, manage and monitor adverse environmental impacts in the Ancol CDF, as the
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Borrower and the Bank.
6. 
"Annual Work Program" means each annual program of activities under Part 1 of the
Project, developed by a Project Implementation Unit covering activities at its respective
Project Sites in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and paragraph 3 of Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and
agreed in writing with the Bank, as in each case as the same may be modified from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
7. 
"Anti-Corruption Action Plan" means a stand-alone chapter of the Project Operations
Manual designed to integrate the contents of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and to give
effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies designed
to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its forms under the Project, including
enhanced information disclosure provisions, civil society oversight provisions, mitigation
measures to deal with the risks associated with collusion, forgery and fraud, a complaints
handling mechanism, and an appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies, as such
chapter may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank
and the Borrower, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such chapter.
8. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
9. 
"Bappenas" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower's
National Development Planning Agency, or any successor thereto.
10. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
11. 
"Central Project Implementation Unit" or "CPIU" means the management unit to be
established , staffed and operated by DGWR in its Directorate of Rivers and Coastal (or
any successor to such directorate acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank), and
responsible for project implementation management as referred to in paragraph 2(b) of
Section I.B of the Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Central Project Management Unit" or "CPMU" means the management unit to be
established, staffed and operated by DGWR in its Office of Planning and Programming
(or any successor to such office acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank) and
responsible for overall project coordination management as referred to in paragraph 2(a)
of Section I.B of the Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, or any successor thereto.
47
13. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, as
administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands (TF092649), dated October 20,
2008, as amended from time to time.
14. 
"Consolidated Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment" means the Consolidated
Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment for the Project, prepared by the
Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit, dated September 2011
and disclosed on November 2, 2011, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank.
15. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised
in October 2006 and May 2010.
16. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means the Cooperation Agreement, dated December 22, 2010,
between DKI and PJA, outlining the responsibilities and roles of each party with respect
to the delivery of Dredged Materials to the Ancol CDF and the subsequent deposit
therein, as the same may be amended from time to time; provided, however, that any such
amendments have been agreed in writing by the Bank to be acceptable for the purposes of
the Project prior to the signature of any such amendments.
17. 
"DGHS" or "Directorate General of Human Settlements" means the Direktorat Jenderal
Cipta Karya, the Directorate General of Human Settlements of the Ministry of Public
Works, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"DGHS Project Sites" means, collectively, the Project Sites which are the responsibility
of DGHS as follows:
(a) 
Cideng Thamrin Drain (Round Road drain), which is a Phase 2 Project Site and
which comprises Package 3; and
(b) 
Tanjungan Drain and Lower Angke Drain, which are Phase 2 Project Sites and
which comprise Package 5;
each as identified in the table in Section 1 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
19. 
"DGWR" or "Directorate General of Water Resources" means the Direktorat Jenderal
Sumber Daya Air of the Ministry of Public Works, or any successor thereto.
20. 
"DGWR Project Sites" means, collectively, the Project Sites which are the responsibility
of DGWR as follows:
(a) 
Cengkareng Floodway (including sea side), which is a Phase 1 Project Site and
which comprises Package 2a;
(b) 
Lower Sunter Floodway, which is a Phase 1 Project Site and which comprises
Package 2b; and
48
(c) 
West Banjir Canal (sea side) and Upper Sunter Floodway, which are Phase 2
Project Sites and which comprise Package 6;
each as identified in the table in Section 1 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
21. 
"Directorate 
of Environmental 
Sanitation Development" 
means the Direktorat
Penyehatan Linkungan Permukiman or Directorate of Environmental 
Sanitation
Development of DGHS in which the Project Implementation Unit for the DGHS Project
Sites under the MPW Parts of the Project is located, or any successor thereto.
22. 
"Disposal Sites" means, collectively, each of the Ancol CDF, the Solid Waste Disposal
Site and the Hazardous Material Disposal Site.
23. 
"DKI" means Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta, the province-level administrative sub-
division of the Borrower for the Jakarta special capital region, or any successor thereto.
24. 
"DKI Parts of the Project" means, collectively, the activities which are the responsibility
of DKI under:
(a) 
Part 1 of the Project implemented at the DKI Project Sites;
(b) 
Part 2(a) of the Project with respect to the DKI Project Sites;
(c) 
implementation of all Resettlement Plans under Part 2(c) of the Project; and
(d) 
cooperation in the implementation of the Grievance Redress System under Part
2(d) of the Project and the Panel of Experts under Part 2(e) of the Project.
25. 
"DKI Project Sites" means, collectively, the Project Sites which are the responsibility of
DKI as follows:
(a) 
Ciliwung-Gunung Sahari Floodway and Waduk Melati (Kali Gresik and Cideng
Hulu), which are Phase 1 Project Sites and which comprise Package 1;
(b) 
Sentiong-Sunter Drain (including Ancol Canal), Waduk Sunter Utara (outlet
drain), Waduk Sunter Selatan, and Waduk Sunter Timur III, which are Phase 2
Project Sites and which comprise Package 4; and
(c) 
Grogol-Sekretaris Drain, Pakin-Kali Besar-Jelakeng Drain, Krukut Cideng Drain
and Krukut Lama Drain, which are Phase 2 Project Sites and which comprise
Package 7;
each as identified in the table in Section 1 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
26. 
"DKI Website" means the website or the portion of the website established and operated
by DKI to provide information to the public about the DKI Parts of the Project, at
www.jakarta.go.id, or any other website acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
49
27. 
"DPU-DKI" means Dinas Pekerjaan Umum, the Jakarta public works agency of DKI in
which the Project Implementation Unit for the DKI Parts of the Project is located, or any
successor thereto.
28. 
"Dredged Materials" means materials dredged from the Project Sites, excluding
Hazardous Materials and Solid Waste, that will, subject to the terms of this Agreement,
be delivered by each Project Implementation Unit's Works Contractor to PJA for deposit
in the Ancol CDF in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement.
29. 
"Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Project framework, prepared by the Borrower, acting through the Central Project
Implementation Unit, dated September 2011 and disclosed on November 2, 2011 and
acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, setting out mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be implemented
under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive
impacts, including the requirements for the development of each Environmental and
Social Safeguards Management Plan, as the same may be modified from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or
annexes to such framework.
30. 
"Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Plan" or "ESMP" means each plan
to be prepared, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social
Safeguards Management Framework, by each Works Contractor, approved by the
Supervision Consultant, and adopted by each Project Implementation Unit for one or
more Project Sites under its respective responsibility and acceptable to the Bank, referred
to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, setting out Project Site-specific mitigation, enhancement, monitoring,
and institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to eliminate any
adverse environmental and social impacts of activities to be implemented under the
Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, as
the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such plan.
31. 
"Environmental and Social Working Group" or "ESWG" means the environmental and
social working group, to be established by DKI in accordance with paragraph 3(e) of
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible
for preparing and supervising the carrying out of all Resettlement Plans.
32. 
"Environmental Impact Assessment, Management and Monitoring Plans" means,
collectively, the Phase 1 Environmental 
Impact Assessment, Management and
Monitoring Plan; and the Phase 2 Environmental Impact Assessment, Management and
Monitoring Plan.
33. 
"Environmental Impact Assessment Supplementary Report" means the report prepared
by the Borrower, acting through the Central Project Implementation Unit, dated
September 2011 and disclosed on November 2, 2011, acceptable to the Bank, prepared in
connection with the Phase I Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan and
50
Monitoring Plan and also to be applied to the Phase 2 Environmental Impact Assessment,
Management Plan and Monitoring Plan, and including all supplements and annexes to
such report, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
34. 
"Environmental Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental Impact
Assessment, Management and Monitoring Plans, the Environmental Impact Assessment
Supplementary Report, the Consolidated Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment
and the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the Environmental and
Social Management Plan for each Project Site, and the Traffic Management Plan for each
Project Site.
35. 
"Flood Management Information System" means the Borrower's system for managing
flood information in Jakarta, for which the Project will provide technical assistance under
Part 2(b) of the Project.
36. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the 
"International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
37. 
"Grievance Redress System" means the system, meeting the requirements set out in
paragraph 12 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and paragraph 11 of Section
I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, described in the Resettlement Policy
Framework and the Project Operations Manual, designed to track complaints regarding
the Project, guide resolution of such complaints, and track and publicize resolution of
such complaints, as such system may be updated from time to time by prior written
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
38. 
"Hazardous Material" means any materials that, due to their nature, concentration, and/or
amount, can directly or indirectly pollute and/or harm the environment, and/or endanger
the environment and /or the health, and life existence of humans and the other living
creatures in as defined in paragraph 21 of Section 1 of Chapter 1 of the Borrower's Law
No.32 of 2009 regarding Environmental Protection and Management (and referred to as
Limbah Bahan Berbahaya dan Beracun, or "B3 Waste").
39. 
"Hazardous Material Disposal Site" means the existing secure landfill of approximately
50 hectares, located in Cileungsi sub-district, Bogor, West Java and operated by the
Hazardous 
Material 
Disposal 
Operator 
under 
License 
Number 
Kep-
36/BAPEDAL/07/1993, issued by the Indonesia Environmental Impact Management
Agency (BAPEDAL), dated July 8, 1993, or such other site lawfully operating under the
laws and regulations of the Borrower as may be agreed in writing between the Borrower
and the Bank.
40. 
"Hazardous Material Disposal Operator" means PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri
(PPLi), a limited liability company duly incorporated and operating under the laws and
regulations of the Borrower, which is owned in a minority stake by the Borrower through
the Ministry of State-Owned Enterprises, and owned in a majority stake by Dowa Eco
System Co. Ltd., Japan, and which holds a Hazardous Material landfill license (License
Number Kep-36/BAPEDAL/07/1993, issued by the Indonesia Environmental Impact
Management Agency (BAPEDAL), dated July 8, 1993), or such other operator of the
51
Hazardous Material Disposal Site as may be agreed in writing between the Borrower and
the Bank.
41. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the following caused on account of Project
implementation: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of affected persons.
42. 
"Jakarta" means the geographic area that is the territory of DKI.
43. 
"Jakarta Provincial Environmental Management 
Agency" 
means the 'Provincial
Environmental Management Agency (BPLHD) at the province and municipal level for
DKI, or any successor thereto.
44. 
"Land Acquisition Committee" means each land acquisition/procurement committee,
duly constituted in accordance with the regulations of DKI and operating in accordance
with the Resettlement Policy Framework, or any successor thereto.
45. 
"Linked Site" means each of: (a) Kali Item; (b) Kalibaru; (c) Sunter Kemayoran;
(d) Ancol Kampung Bandan; (e) Ancol Long Storage; (f) the canal along Jalan Kayu
Putih Timur; (g) Anak K. Ciliwung Utara; (h) the canal along Jalan Tubagus Angke; (i)
PHB Bandengan Utara; and (j) Waduk Pluit, as each such site identified in the table in
Section 2 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
46. 
"Ministry of Finance" means Kementerian Keuangan, the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto.
47. 
"Ministry of Home Affairs" means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto.
48. 
"Ministry of Public Works" or "MPW" means Kementerian Pekerjaan Umum, the
Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
49. 
"MPW Parts of the Project" means, collectively, the activities which are the
responsibility of MPW under:
(a) 
Part I of the Project implemented at the DGWR Project Sites and the DGHS
Project Sites;
(b) 
Part 2(a) of the Project, Part 2(b) of the Project, Part 2(d) of the Project and Part
2(e) of the Project; and
(c) 
Part 2(c) of the Project with respect to the cooperation required between DGWR
and/or DGHS and DKI in the implementation of the Resettlement Policy
Framework and Resettlement Plans.
52
50. 
"National Steering Committee for Water Resources" means the committee, established
by the Borrower pursuant to BAPPENAS decision no 18/M.PPN/HK/01/2009, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and described in paragraph 1 of Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, responsible for providing coordination and overall
guidance for the Project.
51. 
"Office of Planning and International Cooperation" means the office of planning and
overseas cooperation of the Ministry of Public Works, or any successor thereto.
52. 
"Offsite Sources" means the sources for Sand and Laterite for the Ancol CDF.
53. 
"Package" means each of the packages of Works Contracts (Packages 1, 2a, 2b, 3, 4, 5, 6
and 7), identified by number in column 1 of the table in Section 1 of the Annex to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which packages have been grouped together for the
purposes of procurement processing and implementation by the responsible Project
Implementation Units.
54. 
"Panel of Experts" means the independent panel of experts to be established by the
Central Project Implementation Unit and to operate in accordance with paragraph 3 of
Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
55. 
"Part" means each of the two groupings of activities comprising the Project, namely:
(a) 
Part 1 of the Project (Dredging and rehabilitation of selected key floodways,
canals and retention basins), comprised of Part 1(a) and Part 1(b), each as
described in more detail in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for which a table of
related implementation arrangements is also provided in Section 1 of the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(b) 
Part 2 of the Project (Technical assistance for Project management, social
safeguards and capacity building), comprised of Part 2(a), Part 2(b), Part 2(c),
Part 2(d) and Part 2(e), each as described in more detail in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
56. 
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators to measure performance of the Project,
agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank, as of the date of this Agreement,
for the purposes of paragraph I of Section II.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
57. 
"Phase" means each of the two phases of implementation of the Project (Phase I and
Phase 2), which provide for a sequenced Project implementation design in which
Packages of Works Contracts, related implementation activities and related technical
assistance activities are planned for implementation in two sequenced batches by the
responsible Project Implementation Units.
58. 
"Phase 1" means the first phase of the sequenced Project implementation design covering
Works Contracts (Packages 1, 2(a) and 2(b)), related implementation activities and
related technical assistance activities by the responsible Project Implementation Units for
each of the Phase 1 Project Sites as identified in the table in Section 1 of the Annex to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
53
59. 
"Phase 1 Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan and Monitoring Plan" or
"AMDAL" means, collectively, the impact assessment, management plan and monitoring
plan for the Phase 1 Project Sites, prepared by the Borrower, acting through the Central
Project Implementation Unit, approved by the Jakarta Provincial Environmental
Management Agency on March 30, 2010 and disclosed on January 26, 2011, and
acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, setting out mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring, 
and institutional measures to eliminate any adverse
environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project, offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, consisting of:
(a) 
the Environmental Impact Assessment, dated March 30, 2010;
(b) 
the Environmental Management Plan (RKL), dated March 30, 2010:
(c) 
the Environmental Monitoring Plan (RPL), dated March 30, 2010; and
(d) 
all schedules and annexes to such assessments and plans;
in each case as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
60. 
"Phase 1 Project Sites" means each of:
(a) 
Ciliwung-Gunung Sahari Floodway and Waduk Melati (Kali Gresik and Cideng
Hulu), which are DKI Project Sites and comprise Package 1;
(b) 
Cengkareng Floodway (including sea side), which is a DGWR Project Site and
comprises Package 2a; and
(c) 
Lower Sunter Floodway, which is a DGWR Project Site and comprises Package
2b;
each as identified in the table in Section 1 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
61. 
"Phase 2" means the second phase of the sequenced Project implementation design
covering Works Contracts (Packages 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7), related implementation activities
and related technical assistance activities by the responsible Project Implementation Units
for each of the Phase 2 Project Sites as identified in the table in Section 1 of the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement
62. 
"Phase 2 Environmental Impact Assessment, Management and Monitoring Plan" means
the environmental impact assessment, environmental management plan, environmental
monitoring plan and all schedules and annexes to such assessments, plans and reports, to
be prepared by the Borrower, approved by the Jakarta Provincial Environmental
Management Agency and the Bank prior to commencement of activities under Phase 2 of
the Project in accordance with paragraph 5 of. Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and paragraph 2 of Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement;
54
including all schedules and annexes to such assessments, plans and reports; and also
including all updates, supplements, amendments or changes to such assessments, plans
and reports as they may be from time to time approved by the Jakarta Provincial
Environmental Management Agency; provided, however that for the purposes of the
Project, that such updates, supplements, amendments or changes have been agreed in
writing by the Bank to be acceptable.
63. 
"Phase 2 Project Sites" means each of:
(a) 
Cideng Thamrin Drain (Round Road drain), which is a DGHS Project Site and is
Package 3;
(b) 
Sentiong-Sunter Drain (including Ancol Canal), Waduk Sunter Utara (outlet
drain), Waduk Sunter Selatan, and Waduk Sunter Timur III, which are DKI
Project Sites and comprise Package 4;
(c) 
Tanjungan Drain and Lower Angke Drain, which are DGHS Project Sites and
comprise Package 5;
(d) 
West Banjir Canal (sea side) and Upper Sunter Floodway, which are DGWR
Project Sites and comprise Package 6; and
(e) 
Grogol-Sekretaris Drain, Pakin-Kali Besar-Jelakeng Drain, Krukut Cideng Drain
and Krukut Lama Drain, which are DKI Project Sites and which comprise
Package 7;
each as identified in the table in Section 1 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
64. 
"PJA" means PT Pembangunan Jaya Ancol Ltd., a limited liability company duly
incorporated and operating under the laws and regulations of the Borrower and majority-
owned by DKI, which with respect to the Project, is responsible for the construction,
maintenance and operation of the Ancol CDF, or any successor thereto which has been
agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank.
65. 
"POSKO" means, with respect to each Project Site, the office to be established by the
Works Contractor for the Project Implementation Unit responsible for such Project Site
to, among other things, act as a public information center and site-based complaint
handling unit in accordance with the Project Operations Manual and the requirements of
paragraph 5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and paragraph 3 of Section
L.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
66. 
"PP" means a Peraturan Pemerintah, a government regulation of the Borrower.
67. 
"Procurement Committee" means each committee established and operating in
accordance with paragraph 4 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
55
68. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May
2010.
69. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
October 28, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of such paragraphs.
70. 
"Project Affected Person" means a person who, on account of implementation of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused
by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (a) relocation or loss of shelter; (b) loss
of assets or access to assets; or (c) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether
or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such person; and "Project Affected Persons" means, collectively, all such
persons.
71. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means each of: (i) the project implementation
unit established by DKI, duly authorized and operating pursuant to regulations of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto; (ii) the project implementation unit established by
DGWR, duly authorized and operating pursuant to regulations of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto; and (iii) the project implementation unit established by DGHS, duly
authorized and operating pursuant to regulations of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto, each of which is responsible for Project implementation as referred to in
paragraph 3 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
72. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta, or DKI, which is
the Project Implementing Entity for the DKI Parts of the Project.
73. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual, referred to in Section 5.01 and
paragraph 1 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and paragraph 1 of Section
I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Borrower (acting
through the CPMU and CPIU), DKI (with respect to the DKI Parts of the Project only)
and the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such manual.
74. 
"Project Phases" means, collectively, Phase 1 and Phase 2.
75. 
"Project Sites" means, collectively, the DKI Project Sites, the DGWR Project Sites and
the DGHS Project Sites.
76. 
"Project Website" means the website or the portion of the website established and
operated by MPW to provide information to the public about the Project, www.pu.go.id,
or any other website acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
77. 
"Provincial Environmental Management Agency (BPLHD)" means Badan Pengendalian
Lingkungan Hidup Daerah (BPLHD), the Borrower's local level environmental
management agency (including provincial and municipal level), or any successor thereto.
56
78. 
"Regional Office of Ciliwung-Cisadane River Basin" means Balai Besar Wilayah Sungai
Ciliwung-Cisadane, the Regional Office of Ciliwung-Cisadane River Basin of DGWR in
which the Project Implementation Unit for the DGWR Project Sites under the MPW Parts
of the Project is located, or any successor thereto.
79. 
"Resettlement Plan" or "RP" means each resettlement plan for a Project Site or a Linked
Site, acceptable to the Bank, to be prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Resettlement Policy Framework in the event of Involuntary Resettlement, setting out the
arrangements pertaining to land acquisition and the compensation, resettlement, and
rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons in respect of such Project Site or Linked Site,
as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such plan.
80. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework
for the Project, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on April 25, 2011 and
acceptable to the Bank, disclosed on July 8, 2011, setting out the arrangements pertaining
to land acquisition and the development of Resettlement Plans for the compensation,
resettlement, and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons in all the Project Sites and
Linked Sites, as such Resettlement Policy Framework may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Project Implementing Entity and the Bank, and
such terms includes all schedules and annexes to such framework.
81. 
"RKL" means Rencana Pengelolaan Lingkungan, the Borrower's term for an
environmental management plan.
82. 
"RPL" means Rencana Pemantauan Lingkungan, the Borrower's term for an
environmental monitoring plan.
83. 
"Sand and Laterite" means sand from a marine source and laterite (red clay) stipulated in
the AMDAL portion of the Ancol Environmental Impact Assessment, Management Plan
and Monitoring Plan.
84. 
"Section" means each physical section of each Project Site, mapped and identified by the
Project Implementation Unit responsible for such Site, with the input of the Supervision
Consultant, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank as required by the Project Operations
Manual.
85. 
"Social Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Resettlement Policy Framework
and each Resettlement Plan for each Project Site and each Linked Site (if any) for which
a Resettlement Plan is required in accordance with the terms of the Resettlement Policy
Framework.
86. 
"Solid Waste" means materials that are dredged from the Project Sites but are not suitable
as Dredged Materials as required by the Project Operations Manual, and are not
Hazardous Materials.
87. 
"Solid Waste Disposal Site" means the existing Bantar Gebang landfill in Bekasi, which
is the main solid waste landfill serving Jakarta and operating under permit West Java
Governor Permit Number 593.82/SK/282.P/AGK/DA/86 as revised by Permit Number
57
593.82/ SK.1 16.P /AGK/DA/26-1987, as the same may be updated from time to time, or
such other site lawfully operating under the laws and regulations of the Borrower as may
be agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank.
88. 
"Solid Waste Disposal Site Operator" means DKI, or such other operator of the Solid
Waste Disposal Site as may be agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank.
89. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph 2 of Section
I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
90. 
"Supervision Consultant" means the consulting firm to be hired by the Central Project
Implementation Unit in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank to be responsible for
overall supervision and coordination of the Project, including compliance by the
Borrower with the Environmental Safeguards Instruments and the Social Safeguards
Instruments, and joint supervision together with the Jakarta Provincial Environmental
Management Agency of the Ancol Environmental Safeguards Documents.
91. 
"Traffic Management Plan" means the plan for each Project Site, to be adopted by the
Project Implementation Unit and included in the Works Contract, acceptable to the Bank,
setting out measures for mitigation and monitoring of any adverse environmental and
social impacts arising from the transport of Dredged Materials, as the same may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.
92. 
"West Java Provincial Environmental Management Agency" means the Environmental
Management Agency (BPLHD) at the province and municipal level for West Java
province.
93. 
"Works Contract" means each contract, procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with respect to one or more Project Sites to
be entered into by the PIU responsible for such Project Site, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and fully reflecting the requirements of the Project Operations
Manual, the Environmental 
Safeguards Instruments 
and the Social Safeguards
Instruments.
94. 
"Works Contractor" means each firm contracted under a Works Contract, and the
obligations of each Work Contractor under the terms of this Agreement shall apply
equally to any sub-contractor authorized under the relevant Works Contract.
