Docu W'v
LOAN NUMBER 8152-CN
Loan Agreement
(Hubei Xiangyang Urban Transport Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
>t 7 
, 2012, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrow6r") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined and modified in the Appendix to this
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used, in this
Agreement have the meariings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by Lhe Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdraw- Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.0 5(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall, through Hubei Province, cause the Project Implementing
Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) to carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon ihe provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
-3 -
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Even of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any
party to the Subsidiary Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its
respective obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Project
Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) and the XCIC.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) and is legally binding
upon the Project Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) and XCIC in
accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty days (120) days
after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address i5:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125;
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve mobility and accessibility within and to
the Xiangcheng District of Xiangyarig in an integrated, efficient and safe manner.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Public Transport:
Construction of traffic maragement, safety, and bus priority facilities and along
Route 13 corridor.
2. 
Reconstruction of select bu; bays along Route 13 corridor in selected locations.
3. 
Construction of two bus depots and upgrading of the bus terminal in front of the
City's railway station.
4. 
Acquisition of high capacity buses, and intelligent transit applications.
5. 
Provision of technical assistance for detailed design and implementation of the
application of the integrated corridor management approach.
Part 2: Urban Roads:
1. 
Construction of the East section of the South Ring road.
2. 
Construction of selected pr[mary roads and secondary roads in the Pangong area.
3. 
Provision of technical assistance for detailed design and implementation aimed
at integration of land use and transport development.
Part 3: Traffic Management:
I. 
Construction of management and safety facilities on Tanxi/Xijie/Dongjie
corridor, major junctions oi West section of South Ring Road, and selected roads
in Pangong area.
2. 
Acquisition of an area ttaffic control system, including installation of traffic
signals on Route 13 corridor, Tanxi/Xijie/Dongjie corridor, major junctions on
South Ring Road, and project roads in Pangong area, and acquisition of
equipment for a traffic command center and enforcement and monitoring
equipment.
-6-
^ .
Carrying out of a road user education program.
Provision of technical assistance for the use of advanced technology for traffic
management, including for ensuring the integration of non-motorized transport
and parking.
Part 4: Capacity Building:
1. 
Provision of: (i) technical advisory services, inter alia: (a) for the carrying out of
studies on strategic urban transport issues; (b) for the carrying out of training and
capacity 
building 
for 
the 
Project 
Implementing 
Entity's 
(Xiangyang
Municipality's) officials involved in urban transport planning and management;
and (c) for the carrying out of training and capacity building for the PMO staff to
help them implement the Project in compliance with contract management,
fiduciary and safeguards requirements.
2. 
Acquisition of office equipment for the PMO and office expenditures required
for managing the implementation of the Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangement
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to Hubei the proceeds of the Loan under
terms and conditions satisfictory to the Bank, and shall cause Hubei to make said
proceeds available to the Project Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality)
on the same terms and conditions which shall include the following:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, ef withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions)
shall be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a
grace period of fh e (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from t .me to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Hubei: (a) to manage, operate, monitor, transfer and
reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to paragraph I
above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) to take, all required actions, including provision of timely consents and
approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds
and the implementation of the Project and, to enable the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) to comply with their respective
undertakings under this Agreement and the Project Agreement; and (c) to
maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project
and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other
information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
-8-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitDr and evaluate, or through Hubei, cause the Project
Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators set forth in Section 11 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall,
through Hubei, cause the Project Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality)
to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, thrcugh Hubei, cause the Project Implementing Entity
(Xiangyang Municipality) to have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
-9-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II :f the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works 
82,270,000 
75%
(2) Goods, 
17,480,000 
100%
consultants'
services and
Training
(3) Front-end Fee 
$250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments mad 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after November 30,
2011, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2).
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2017.
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installmert Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
October 15, 2017 
1.84%
April 15, 2018 
1.87%
October 15, 2018 
1.90%
April 15, 2019 
1.92%
October 15, 2019 
1.95%
April 15, 2020 
1.98%
October 15, 2020 
2.01%
April 15, 2021 
2.04%
October 15, 2021 
2.07%
April 15, 2022 
2.10%
October 15, 2022 
2.14%
April 15, 2023 
2.17%
October 15, 2023 
2.20%
April 15, 2024 
2.23%
October 15, 2024 
2.27%
April 15, 2025 
2.30%
October 15, 2025 
2.33%
April 15, 2026 
2.37%
October 15, 2026 
2.41%
April 15, 2027 
2.44%
October 15, 2027 
2.48%
April 15, 2028 
2.52%
October 15, 2028 
2.55%
April 15, 2029 
2.59%
October 15, 2029 
2.63%
April 15, 2030 
2.67%
October 15, 2030 
2.71%
April 15, 2031 
2.75%
October 15, 2031 
2.79%
April 15, 2032 
2.83%
October 15, 2032 
2.88%
April 15, 2033 
2.92%
October 15, 2033 
2.96%
April 15, 2034 
3.01%
October 15, 2034 
3.05%
April 15, 2035 
3.10%
October 15, 2035 
3.14%
April 15, 2036 
3.19%
October 15, 2036 
3.24%
April 15, 2037 
3.45%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withcrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2)calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 12 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of su:h sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 13 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guideli -ies" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised in October
2006 and May 2010.
4. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss
of shelter; (B) loss of asse:s or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person;
and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.
5. 
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan dated November 11, 2011,
which Plan sets out the measures to be implemented by the Project Implementing
Entity for the protection of the environment, as well as administrative and
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as the same
may be revised from time 1o time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
6. 
"Fiscal Year" means tie fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity beginning on January 1 of a year and ending on December
31 of the same year.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"Hubei" means the Borrower's Hubei Province and any successor thereto.
9. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004, and revised in October 1, 2006 and
May 2010.
10. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated March 8, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
- 14 -
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
11. 
"Project Implementing Entity" and the acronym "PIE" mean the Xiangyang
Municipality in the province of Hubei.
12. 
"Project Leading Group" means the Project Leading Group established by the
Project Implementing Entiy (Xiangyang Municipality), on August 28, 2009, to
provide overall leadership, policy guidance and institutional coordination in
Project preparation and implementation, and any successor thereto.
13. 
"PMO" means the Project Management Office, established by Xiangyang
Municipality, on August 28, 2009, to coordinate the preparation of the Project
and supervise and monitor its implementation, and referred to in paragraph 2,
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or any successor thereto.
14. 
"RAP" means the Resettlement Action Plan dated November 8, 2011, and to be
implemented by the Project Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) for
purposes of carrying out the Project, which plan sets out, inter alia: (a) the
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the
Project and related facilities, including access roads, construction camps, borrow
pits, spoil disposal sites, resettlement sites and quarries; (b) actions and measures
for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement
and rehabilitation; and (c) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the
written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and
annexes supplemental to said plan, and all such plans that shall have been
prepared in accordance with the RPF (as hereinafter defined).
15. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and "RPF" mean the resettlement policy
framework dated November 8, 2011, duly adopted by the Project Implementing
Entity (Xiangyang Municipality), that sets forth the principles and procedures to
address impacts to land and other assets and the compensation of Displaced
Persons on account of such impacts during the execution of the Project; and for
preparation of Resettlement Plans as per the RPF, as well as the monitoring and
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said framework and plans,
organizational arrangements, and criteria in accordance with which resettlement
action plans are prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph C.1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
16. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph 3 of
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement pursuant to which the Project
Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) shall make part of the proceeds
of the Loan available to the XCIC (as hereinafter defined).
- 15 -
7. 
"Training" means for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
the reasonable cost, based on annual work plans and budgets approved by the
Bank, of travel, lodging anl per diem for trainees attending training, study tours,
workshops and seminars and the cost of delivering training, such as services of
trainers, rental of training space and training equipment and other costs, directly
related to such training, study tours and workshops acceptable to the Bank.
18. 
"XCIC" means Xiangyang Construction Investment Corporation, established in
August 
2003 
under 
the 
Project 
Implementing 
Entity's 
(Xiangyang
Municipality's) Order No 24-2003.
19. 
"XCIC Subsidiary Loan" means the subsidiary loan provided by the Project
Implementing Entity (Xiangyang Municipality) to XCIC.
