DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8157-CN
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Economic Development of Small Towns (Gansu) Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
.AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
2 
,2012
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
4 
> f- 
? 
. , 2012, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINTIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requ.res otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H - LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend :o the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifty million Dollars
($50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set fbrth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding, or from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall -ause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic af China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 68 55 11 25
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.:20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
4
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
,-5-
SCHEDULE 1
1'roject Description
The objective of the Project is to improve public infrastructure and services to
contribute to sound development of selected small towns in Gansu Province of the
Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: 
Infrastructure Development
Strengthening of high priority pu'lic infrastructure in selected small towns in Gansu
Province through the implementation of key investment subprojects focusing on, inter
alia: (a) construction or rehabilitation of urban and rural roads; (b) expansion and
modernization of irrigation infrastructure; and (c) development of agricultural markets,
commercial infrastructure and integrated service centers.
Part B: 
Institutional Strengthenting and Capacity Enhancement
Improving the institutional capacity of Gansu Province to manage the development and
operation of modern and efficient infrastructure, the carrying out of business
development activities and the provision of support services through, inter alia, (a)
carrying out of policy, technology and marketing studies; (b) carrying out of training,
extension services, workshops and study tours; and (c) acquisition of equipment for
testing, grading and real-time monitoring of the quality and operation of infrastructure
facilities developed under Part A of the Project.
Part C: Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
Supporting the overall development of Gansu Province to coordinate and manage the
implementation of the Project, including the establishment and operation of a
management information, monitoring and evaluation system.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Financing and Institutional
A. 
Financing Arrangements
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entity the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Categories as set forth in
the table in Section IV of this Schedule, and shall cause such Entity to make said
proceeds available to the Project Towns as needed for their respective activities
under the Project, all under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including the amount of the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium for
Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years,
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause each Project
Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
-7-
General Conditions and or the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex of
the Schedule to the respective Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester,
beginning on February 15, 2013.
2. 
The Borrower shall review with the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity
(mid-term review), not later than December 31, 2014, the progress made in the
implementation of the Project.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provision of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part
of the Progress Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim anaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the end of such perioc..
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines,
and with the provisions of this Seci ion.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
-8-
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement
Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan.
Procurement Methods
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding:
In addition, the !rocedures to be followed for National Competitive
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of
the People's Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the
President of the People's Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with
the 
following 
clarifications 
required 
for compliance 
with the
Procurement Guidelines:
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's country,
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that
are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which
may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and
prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum
of thirty 430) days shall be given to bidders between the date of
advertisement 
in such newspaper and the deadline 
for
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in
detail in the bidding documents.
-9-
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders.
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity (Gansu Province), as the case maybe, in case of breach
of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall
specify the required form and amount of such security.
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The
time for cpening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for
receipt of such bids.
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered
an opporlunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not
be required to be present at the bid opening.
(vii) 
All bid cvaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the
form of pass/fail requirements.
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the
Project Implementing Entity (Gansu Province), as the case
maybe.
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding
documenlts; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding
documen-s or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
submitted.
(x) 
Each cor tract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank,
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and
records a idited by auditors appointed by the Bank.
- 10 -
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially
autonomcus; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not
a dependc nt agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of
bids is less than three (3) and, rejection of all bids or rebidding
shall no: take 
place without the Bank's prior written
concurrer ce.
(xiii) 
The resu'ts of bid evaluation and contract award shall be
published in the national press or provincial press or official
gazette or a free and open access website and shall identify the
name anc offered price of the winning bidder, as well as the
duration ind summary scope of the awarded contract.
(xiv) 
The Project Implementing Entity (Gansu Province) shall have in
place provisions for bidders to protest.
(b) 
Shopping
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection Based cn Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Procedures set foith in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) 
Single-Source Selection
- 11 -
3. 
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than an amount
established by the Bank fi-om time to time may comprise entirely of national
consultants.
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shal set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All 
ther contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General
Conditions; (b) if applicable, the Premium for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate
Collars in accordance with Section 2.07(c) of the General Conditions; and
(c) other Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 12 -
Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
% of Expenditures to
(Expressed in 
be Financed
Category 
Dollars) 
(Inclusive of Taxes)
1. 
Works for Sub-Projects 
41,366,000 
83%
under Part A of the
Project
2. 
Goods and equipment 
6,940,000 
100%
for Sub-projects under
Parts A, B and C of the
Project
3. 
Consultants' Services 
1,569,000 
100%
and Training under
Parts B and C of the
Project
4. 
Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07(b) of the General
Conditions
5. 
Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Premium 
Agreement
Total 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made in respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first 'rincipal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by
(b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 2017, through 
2.50%
December 15, 2036
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in ar ounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each su zh withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Install -nent Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said 'rincipal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred t0 in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 14 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of al' or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 15 -
Schedule 4
The List of Project Town
Province 
(1) Project Towns 
(2) Counties/Cities/Districts 
(3) Cities
Gansu 
Dongwan Town 
Jingyuan County 
Baiyin City
Hongshui Town 
Jingtai County
Ganguan Town 
Maiji District 
Tianshui City
Zaojiao Town 
Qinzhou District
Meichuan Town 
Min County 
Dingxi City
Wenfeng Town 
Longxi County
Shizi Town 
Lingtai County 
Pingliang City
Dongzhi Town 
Xifeng District 
Qingyang City
Dangzhai Town 
Ganzhou District 
Zhangye City
Hongwansi Town 
Sunan County
Huahai Town 
Yumen City 
Jiuquan City
Qili Town 
Dunhuang City.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project,
have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii) loss of assets or access tc, assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced
Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
5. 
"Environmental Code of Practice" and the acronym "ECOP" mean the code of
practice prepared and adopted by Gansu dated December 28, 2011, for each type of
infrastructure development Sub-project to be carried out by Gansu under the Project
and setting forth, inter alia, the procedures, policies and mechanisms for identifying
and mitigating adverse environmental 
impacts during the planning, design,
preparation and implementation of the Sub-projects, including, measures for
avoidance of or mitigation against adverse impacts on natural habitats or physical
cultural resources as well as arrangements for reporting and monitoring as the same
may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
6. 
"Ethnic Minority Development Plan" and the acronym "EMDP" mean the plan dated
December 28, 2011, preparec and adopted by Gansu for each Sub-project to be
carried out in Hongwansi towNnship with the objective of improving economic and
social development while preserving the culture, customs and traditions of ethnic
minorities affected by the sub- projects, as the same may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments
and annexes supplemental to such Plan.
7. 
"Financial Management Manual" means individually each Financial Management
Manual prepared and adopted by Gansu dated February 10, 2012, for the Project and
which sets out, inter alia, the policies, procedures and guidelines for establishing and
- 17 -
maintaining a financial management system to be implemented by Gansu, in carrying
out the Project, including intemal controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset
management, withdrawal applt'cation procedures, financial reporting, and auditing
arrangements as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes
supplemental to such Manual.
8. 
"Gansu" means the Borrower's Province of Gansu, or any successor thereto.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
10. 
"Pest Management Plan" and the acronym "PMP" mean the Pest Management Plan
prepared and adopted by Gansu dated December 28, 2011, and to be implemented or
caused to be implemented by Gansu for improving integrated pest management
activities during the design, construction and operation of the Project, including
environmental, occupational ard safety risk assessment, capacity building, grievance
handling mechanisms, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements, as such plan
may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank; and
such Plan includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to such plan.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services undet IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Manual" means the Manual prepared and adopted by Gansu dated
April 6, 2012, which sets out, inter alia, the detailed policies, procedures and
arrangements for carrying cut procurement under the Project, including the
documents to be prepared, the reviews to be carried out, the selection procedures to
be followed, and supervision and dispute resolution mechanisms.
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Procurement Plan of Gansu, dated April 6, 2012, for
the Project, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time
to time in accordance with the :rovisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement for the Project between the Bank
and Gansu dated the same cate as this Agreement, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank, and such
term includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to said
Agreement.
15. 
"Project Counties" means collectively the administratively managed areas referred to
as Counties, Cities or Districts located within the Cities of Gansu Province set out in
columns 2 and 3 respectively in Schedule 4 to this Agreement that have been selected
- 18 -
for participation in the Project; and "Project County" means individually any such
County, City or District.
16. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Plan prepared and adopted by Gansu dated
March 20, 2012, and to be implemented or caused to be implemented by Gansu for
the Project and which sets out the criteria, procedures and arrangements in
accordance with which the activities under the Project will be screened, selected,
appraised, approved, implemer.ted, operated, maintained, supervised, monitored and
evaluated, and includes, inter alia, the detailed arrangements for applying, as the case
may be, the Financial Manage:nent Manual, the Procurement Manual, the RAP, the
ECOP, the PMP, the Procurement Plan and the EMDP in implementing the Project,
as each such Plan may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval
of the Bank, and such term includes all appendices, schedules and agreements
supplemental to each said Plan,
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity" and "Project Province" mean Gansu.
18. 
"Project Towns" means collectively the Towns located in the Project Counties of
Gansu and set out in column I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement which have been
selected by them in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
for carrying out Sub-projects to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan, all as set
out in the Project Implementation Plan.
19. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and the acronym "RAP" mean the Plan prepared and
adopted by Gansu dated December 28, 2011, and to be implemented or caused to be
implemented by Gansu in the context of carrying out the Project, such plan setting
out, inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land
required for said activities; (b) the principles, actions and measures for the payment
of compensation to Displacec Persons under the Project and for their resettlement
and rehabilitation; and (c) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes
supplemental to each such Pla-i.
20. 
"Sub-project" means each aclivity to be prepared and carried out under Parts A, B
and C of the Project as set out in the Project Implementation Plan.
21. 
"Training" means for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and allowances of trainees attending training,
study tours, workshops and seminars, the cost of organizing workshops, training and
seminars, and the cost of del vering training (excluding consultants fees) including,
rental of training space and training equipment and other logistical costs, all as yearly
budgeted and approved by the Provincial Finance Department of Gansu, on behalf of
the Borrower, and the Bank.
