OFFICIAL
DOCUMWTS
LOAN NUMBER 8154-PK
Loan Agreement
(Natural Gas Efficiency Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
J(AV 
, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8154-PK
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
J 
-A 
We 
,2012, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to provide assistance
towards the financing of the Project and, by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Association ("Financing Agreement"), the Association has agreed
to provide such assistance in an amount equivalent to sixty four million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 64,500,000) ("Financing");
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million
Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
-2-
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or un-withdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
-3-
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
Progress in Project implementation, as measured against the performance
indicators set forth in Section II.A.1 (b) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, particularly that of reduction in unaccounted-for-gas and the
related targets set forth in said Section, is, in the opinion of the Bank,
inadequate.
(b) 
The Borrower has failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement
(other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or Section Officer of the Economic Affairs Division
-4-
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, each such person acting
individually.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics
Islamabad
Pakistan
Facsimile:
92-51-921-8976
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By 
A
Auoorized Rep sentative -
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND 
E ELOPMENT
By
Auth rized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the supply of natural gas in Pakistan by
reducing the physical and commercial losses of gas in the pipeline system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
1 .
Unaccounted for Gas
(a) 
Segmentation of distribution network, installation of bulk meters and
pressure management systems, and carrying out of pressure testing and
leak detection surveys.
(b) 
Rehabilitation of pipelines: (i) overhead leak detection; and (ii) pipeline
replacement or rectification.
(c) 
Rehabilitation of cathodic protection systems of steel pipes: (i) pipe
recoating and road restoration; and (ii) installation of cathodic protection
equipment.
(d) 
Installation of advanced metering and monitoring and surveillance
systems.
2. 
Appliance Efficiency
Carrying out of an appliance efficiency pilot project promoting the use of
thermally efficient gas appliances through the provision of such appliances to,
and / or the retrofitting of existing appliances of, gas consumers.
3. 
Technical Assistance
Provision of advisory support to the Project Implementing Entity in relation to
Project implementation, and capacity building of the Project Implementing
Entity, including with respect to new technologies.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a Subsidiary
Agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the obligation of
the Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
(i) repay the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan over a period in
accordance with Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) pay the
Borrower interest on the Withdrawn Loan Balance at a rate of eleven and
four-fifth percent (11.80%) per annum;
(b) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(c) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Environmental and Social Management Framework, and without any
right or authority, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, to
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended,
abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof;
(d) 
ensure that: (i) a financial management system is maintained and
financial statements are prepared in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate
to reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project
Implementing 
Entity, 
including 
the 
operations, 
resources, 
and
expenditures related to the Project; and (ii) such statements are audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and such
audited financial statements are furnished to the Borrower and the Bank
in accordance with the provisions of Section II.C.3 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement and made publicly available in a timely fashion and
in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(e) 
ensure that procurement of the goods, non-consulting services, works,
and consultants' services required for the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, as said
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.
-7-
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or
permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or
any provision thereof.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Early-Term and Midterm Reviews
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity, not
later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, an early-term
review, and not later than thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, a
midterm review, to assess the status of Project implementation, as
measured 
against 
the 
performance 
indicators 
set 
forth 
in
Section II.A.1 (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, particularly
that of reduction in unaccounted-for-gas and the related targets set forth
in said Section. 
Such review shall include an assessment of the
following: (i) overall progress in implementation; 
(ii) results of
monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) progress on procurement and
disbursement; (iv) progress on implementation of safeguards measures;
(v) implementation arrangements; and (vi) the need to make any
adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve performance.
(b) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the Bank, at least one (1) month before each such review,
a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, needed to undertake
the review as described in the preceding paragraph, integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
Section II.A. 1 (a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such
date; and
-8-
(c) 
review, jointly with the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity, the
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Part A and thereafter take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of such report and the Borrower's and the Bank's
views on the matter.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank, not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have or cause to have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal
year of the Project Implementing Entity. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and Works. 
All goods, non-consulting
services, and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
-9-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and
Works.
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods, non-consulting services, and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and
Works. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consulting
services, and works. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set out in
the Annex to this Schedule
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services.
1. 
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Least-Cost Selection
(c) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(d) Single-Source Selection
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants
- 10-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Financing ("Category"), the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Financing to each Category, and
the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.
Amount of
the Loan 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Financing 
Expenditures to be
(expressed 
Allocated 
financed
Category 
in USD) 
(expressed in SDR) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non- 
87,250,000 
56,430,000 
100% in respect of the Loan
consulting services, 
and the Financing
consultants'
services (including
for audits), and
Training for the
Project
(2) Works for the 
12,500,000 
8,070,000 
30% in respect of the Loan
Project (except for 
and the Financing
Parts 1 (b) (i) and
(c) (i) of the
Project)
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to
-ll-
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Premiums for 
0 
0 
Amounts payable pursuant
Interest Rate Caps 
to Section 2.07 (c) of this
and Interest Rate 
Agreement in accordance
Collars 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL 
100,000,000 
64,500,000
AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
November 1, 2011 for Eligible Expenditures under the Financing.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
- 12 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding shall be those set out in Rules 5 and from 20 till 36 (a) of the Federal Public
Procurement Rules (2004) (S.R.O. 432(1)/2004), with the modifications set out below, in
order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the
provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said
Guidelines. 
In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and the
modifications set out below, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) national
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least thirty (30) days prior to the
deadline for the submission of bids;
(ii) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who
are willing to pay the required fee;
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;
(iv) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
(v) 
Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids;
(vii) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an
official estimate without the prior written agreement of the Bank;
(viii) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank's prior written
agreement shall be obtained;
(ix) 
Bids shall be solicited and works contracts shall be awarded on the basis
of unit prices;
(x) 
Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated
rates;
(xi) 
Single bids shall also be considered for award;
(xii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder;
- 13 -
(xiii) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
or any other bidders;
(xiv) 
Draft contracts shall be reviewed by the Bank in accordance with prior
review procedures;
(xv) 
State-owned enterprises shall be eligible to bid only if they can establish
that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower;
(xvi) 
A firm declared ineligible by the Bank, based on a determination by the
Bank that the firm has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive,
coercive, or obstructive practices in competing for or in executing a
Bank-financed contract, shall be ineligible to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract during the period of time determined by the Bank;
(xvii) 
The Bank shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated
period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time
determines that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in
competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by the Bank; and
(xviii) Each contract financed from the proceeds of a Loan shall provide that the
suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance
of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and material violation by the
supplier, contractor, or subcontractor of such provision may amount to an
obstructive practice.
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15, the first installment to be payable on the fifteenth (15th)
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount and the last installment to be payable on the forty-sixth (46th) Interest
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to three and thirteenth of
one percent (3.13%) of the Disbursed Amount. 
The last installment shall be
equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one (1) or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after
Januaryl5, 2039, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount
of all such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
3. 
"Environmental 
and Social Management Framework" means the Project
Implementing 
Entity 
(as 
hereinafter 
defined)'s 
framework, 
dated
December 2010, agreed with the Bank and setting out mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, to eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts of activities
to be implemented under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes or schedules to such framework.
4. 
"Fiscal Year" means the 12-month period from July 1 to June 30; provided,
however, that, in the case of the first Fiscal Year of Project implementation, such
period shall run from the date of this Agreement to June 30 next following.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
6. 
"Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority" means the Borrower's entity, established
and operating pursuant to its Ordinance No. XVII (Oil and Gas Regulatory
Authority Ordinance) dated March 28, 2002, responsible for the regulation of the
oil and gas sector, or any successor thereto.
7. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
Works, and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 10, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
9. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Sui Southern Gas Company Limited (as
hereinafter defined).
- 16 -
10. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Project Implementing
Entity's Memorandum and Articles of Association dated July 28, 1955 and
Registration No. 334 dated August 17, 1955, and includes any other laws and
regulations 
governing the organization, reorganization, restructuring, and
operations of the Project Implementing Entity.
11. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 1.A. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan and the Financing available to the Project Implementing
Entity.
12. 
"Sui Southern Gas Company Limited" means the Borrower's partly-owned
enterprise, established and operating pursuant to the Project Implementing
Entity's Legislation, responsible for the distribution of natural gas in Balochistan
and Sindh provinces, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"Training" means the cost of training financed under the Project, attributable to
seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with the cost of domestic and
international travel and subsistence for training participants, services of trainers,
rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials,
and other activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
Section H. 
Modification to the General Conditions
The modification to the General Conditions is as follows, namely, that Section 2.05 (a) is
modified to read as follows:
"(a) 
the payment is for the reasonable cost of goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants' services (including for audits), or training required for the Project,
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and procured, all in accordance with the
provisions of the Legal Agreements;"
