OFFICtAL
LOAN NUMBER 8183-UY
Loan Agreement
(OSE Sustainable and Efficient Project)
between
INTERNATIOINAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ADMINISTRACION DE LAS OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO (OSE)
Dated December 11, 2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Decen ber .1, 2012, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and ADMINISTRACION DE
LAS OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO ("Borrower"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1 01. 
The General Conditior s (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the me mings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty two million United States
Dollars (US142,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Con'tersion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("L.an"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agree neni ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may wii hdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee paya)le by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest )ayabl,, by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be deterrined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the Gentral Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Paymeni Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount >f the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule se: forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of thc terms of tie Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a hange of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all oi any portic n of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spr -ad, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdriwn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread 'o a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any porticn of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by tle establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Colla- on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion -equested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by tEe Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Condii-ions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidlines.
AR FICLE HI -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares is co nmitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitition upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower End tie Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreerient.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.0 1. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that Law
No. 11907 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, wa ved or not enforced so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out the
Project.
-3-
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Secticn 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.31. 
The Additional Conditicn of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Operational Manual has been adopted in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date nin -ty (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than eighteen 18) nonths after the Bank's approval of the Loan which
expire on January 3, 2014.
ARTICLE VI -- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representatives are, jointly, its President of the Board of
Directors and its Secreta y General.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Administracii5n de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado
Carlos Roxlo 1275
Montevideo, Uruguay
Cable: 
Facsimile:
OSE 
(598) 19521136
Montevideo, Jruguay
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International 3ank for Rcconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
elex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAE 
48423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
54145(MCI)
-4-
A GREED at Montevideo, Urugtay, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Authorize 
epresentative
ADMINISTRACION DE LAS OBRAS
SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO
By
Authorized Representative
AlDMIMSTRACION DE LAS OBRAS
SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Pr)ject is to increase the sustainability of the Borrower by
improving the reliability and resilience of its water supply and sanitation systems,
enhancing its efficiency, and strengthening its management capacity.
The Project consists of tie following parts:
Part 1: Investing in Reliable Water Supply Infrastructure
1 
Aguas Corrientes Intake Structure and Electrical System Improvements
(a) Construction of a new water intake structure; and (b) carrying out of
improvements to the ele:trical system of the finished water pump station of the
Aguas Corrientes's wate -treatment plant
1.2 
Construction :f Two Wa:er T.^eatment Plants
Construction and repla emcnt of the two water treatment plants in the
Guarantor's cities of Dur 7zno and Treinta y Tres.
Part 2: Managing Water and Euergy More Efficiently
2.1 
Non-Revenue Water Red ictio ri
(a) 
Establishment o"' DMCs in the Guarantor's cities of Montevideo,
Paysandfi, Mercedes, Rivera, Salto, and Las Piedras-La Paz;
(b) 
Strengthening thc ins:itutional support for NRW reduction across the
Guarailtor's terri :ory including, inter alia: (i) the establishment of
standardized procedur.s for the construction of water connections; (ii)
the carrying out of capacity building activities for the Borrower's staff;
(iii) the carrying out of annual evaluation workshops; and (iv) the
provision of tech iical 
assistance to strengthen the NRW reduction
prograin; and
(c) 
Carrying out of rationwide improvements to the Borrower's metering
system, including, inter alia: (i) the replacement of micro- and macro-
meters (ii) the ca -ying out of a pilot program to test automated micro-
meters; and (iii) th- establishment of a telemetry program.
-6-
2.2 
Energy Management
Strengthening the Borrower's energy management program through, inter alia:
(a) the development of an energy management plan that establishes a
comprehensive energy strategy, which includes, inter alia: (i) clear objectives;
(ii) responsibilities of the Borrower's units in charge of implementing said plan;
and (iii) long- and shor:-tern energy conservation measures; (b) the replacement
of pumps and underperforraing equipment; (c) the acquisition of monitoring
equipment and softwar; and (d) the carrying out of capacity building activities
for the Borrower's staff including, inter alia, the design and implementation of a
training program on energy efficiency.
Part 3: Preparing for the Future: Management, Planning and Risk
3 
Corporate Management
Enhancing the efficiency, efficacy and transparency of the Borrower's
management, through, inter alia: (a) the establishment of an asset management
program; (b) the design and implementation of a logistics management model;
and (c) the es:ablishment of a knowledge and innovation management model.
3.2 
Risk Management and Pl anning
(a) Supporting the Borro xer's efforts to develop a long-term, strategic plan that
thoroughly analyzes anc mitigates potential risks; and (b) strengthening the
Borrower's risk management capacity in day-to-day operations through, inter
alia: (i) the carrying out of a review of the Borrower's mission and vision
statements; (ii) the carrying olt of a strategic analysis of the risks affecting the
Borrower's operations; (iii) the development of risk maps that consider global,
national and utility-relate I risks; (iv) the carrying out of a climate vulnerability
risk assessment; (v) the development of contingency plans for droughts and
floods; and (vi) the develcpment of water safety plans.
3.3 
Environmental Sustainability
Enhancing the Borrower' s ability to operate in an environmentally sustainable
manner by strengthening the Borrower's environmental and sanitation areas and
supporting the Borrower's participation in water source protection activities
through, inter alia: (a) the provision of technical assistance to strengthen the
UGA; (b) the development of a sludge master plan; (c) the development of a
comprehensive strategic w istewater plan; (d) the establishment of a water quality
and quantity monitoring 
program in selected watersheds; 
and (e) 
the
implementation of a hydraulic and water quality management program at the
Laguna del Sauce watershed.
-7-
Part 4: Knowledge Sharing and Project Management Activities
(a) Provision of suprort for Project rmanagement, supervision and engineering activities,
including the carryin, out of tec inicE.l audits and the Project's audits; (b) carrying out of
external and internal disseminat on cf the Project's results and major accomplishments;
and (c) carrying out of knowledge sharing activities, such as, inter alia, documenting best
practices, participatirg in conferences, and conducting seminar and/or conferences with
particular emphasis Dn South-South knowledge exchange in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementaticn Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangerients
1. 
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall operate and
maintain, until completion of the Project, a unit to be responsible for the overall
coordination and management of the Project (GPFE), such unit to maintain
staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter
alia, the following responsibilities:
(a) 
overall respons bilitv for implementing, planning, coordinating and
monitoring of Project activities, at the national and regional level;
(b) 
the 
3upervision 
and coordination of the implementation of any
resettlement plan or plans prepared in accordance with Section I.E.2 of
this Schedule;
(c) 
orientation and :oordination of the Project staff at the national and
regional levels;
(d) 
carryiag out of th. Prcject's dissemination and communication strategy;
(e) 
revising and updating )f the Operational Manual;
(f) 
elaboration of the annual operational plans;
(g) 
management of Project procurement and contracting of the required
goods, works, not-consulting services and consultants' services;
(h) 
review and cleara ice of all the contracts necessary for the execution of
the Project;
(i) 
carrying out of the financial management of the Project, including
without limitation, the issuance of financial statements and reports as per
Section II of this Scf.edule and the preparation and maintenance of
administrative, procurement and financial records;
(j) 
preparation and Eubmission to the Bank of: (i) Loan withdrawal
applications; and (ii) Project information and Project management
reports in accorda ice with the formats established in the Operational
Manual.
-9-
(k) 
preparation and submission to the Bank of customized Performance
Indicators' 
rionitoring reports, 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
formats
established for that purpose in the Operational Manual; and
(1) 
prcvision of assistance and documentation to external independent
auc.itors.
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall operate and
maintain, until compleion of the Project, a unit (UGA), with staffing, functions
and responsibilities sat sfaciory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the following
responsibilities:
(i) 
supervision, coordination and implementation of the EA (including the
ESMP);
(ii) 
supe-vision 
of 
contractors' 
implementation 
of 
the 
applicable
environmental gjidelines; and
(iii) 
ensuring compli mce with the Guarantor's national environmental laws
and regulations.
3. 
Not later than six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall develop an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the contracting of staff, individual
consultants and consulting firms necessary to support the implementation of the
Project.
B. 
Implementation Arrang!ments
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the Operational
Manual; (ii) the EA (inclu fing the ESMP); and (iii) the RPF. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of
these documents without the Bank's prior written approval. In case of any
conflict between the terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shill prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective
thereof.
C. 
Operational Manual
1. 
Without limitation to the provi,3ions of Section I.B (i) of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall maintain, throughout the course of Project implementation, an
- 10 -
operational manual, sat sfaclory to the Bank (the "Operational Manual"), such
manual to include, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures f Dr th. carrying out, reporting, monitoring and evaluation
of the Project (including the Borrower's performance, procurement,
disbursement, fiancial, social and environmental requirements thereof);
(b) 
the standard bidding documents and standard requests for proposals
acceptable to the Bank and the Procurement Plan;
(c) 
the functions and responsibilities of the GPFE, UGA, and RANC Unit;
(d) 
the s:andards to be Efllowed by the Borrower in the preparation of the
Project's progress reports;
(e) 
the EA (including the ESMP and the Construction Environmental
Manual) and the RPF,
(f) 
the Project moniloring and evaluating guidelines;
(g) 
the reporting reqiirements for the Performance Indicators; and
(h) 
the Anti-Corrupt on Guidelines.
D. 
Anti-Corrup tion
The Borrower shall ensu -e that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of :he Anti-Ccrrupl ion Guidelines.
E. 
Safe2uards
1. 
Without limitation to tht provisions of Section I.B.1 (ii) of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall:
(a) 
imple-nent the EA (including the ESMP) in a manner acceptable to the
Bank; and
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the
implementation of the EA (including the ESMP), and the achievement of
its objectives.
2. 
Without limitetion to the iertinent provisions of this Agreement in respect of any
activity to be carried out under the Project in which works are involved, if as a
result of the definition of the precise sitting alignments of any such work, it is
- 11 -
determined by the Ban < and/or the Borrower that Involuntary Resettlement will
be involved, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any said works,
prepare and'or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, a resettlement plan,
acceptable 
:o the Bank (which plan shall be consistent with the pertinent
provisions 
af the Resettlement Policy Framework); and (b) immediately
thereafter, implement a:id/or cause to be implemented, said resettlement plan in
accordance with its terr s and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall take all rieasures necessary to regularly collect, compile, and
submit to the Bank, as :art of the Project Reports, information on the status of
compliance with the EA (including the ESMP), and the RPF, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such documents;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smocth implementation of such documents; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy in
respect of any activity under Parts 2, 3.2 and 3.3 of the Project shall be
satisfactory tc the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms
of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguard
Policies then n force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monilor arid evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and Section I.E.3 of this Schedule, and on the basis of the
Performance Indicators. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than three months
after the end of the period zove red by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall, twice a year, starting on the date of this Agreement and on
every subsequent March 31 and September 30 of each year of Project
implementation, provide ir forration on its webpage to its staff and customers, in
a manner satisFactory to ihe Bank, with respect to the Borrower's corporate
indicators related to, inter Wia, access to services, quality of service, operational
efficiency, financial efficicncy and environmental management, as measured by
the Borrower's indicator mconitc ring and evaluation system.
- 12 -
3. 
Without limilation to the provisions of paragraph A. 1 herein, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
not later than December 15, 2015, or at a later date agreed with the Bank,
carry out a comprehensive mid-term review assessment of the Project in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, such assessment to include,
inter alia: (i) an evaluation of the Project as measured against the
Performance Indicators; (ii) a description of all the investments and
disbursements carried out by the Borrower up to the date of the
asses:;ment; and (iii) any technical, commercial and environmental
studies carried out by the Borrower under the Project;
(b) 
not later than one month before the mid-term review mentioned above,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank, including the topics to be addressed and assessed
during the mid-lerm review and any other information related to the
implementation of the Project; and
(c) 
immediately thereafter, implement and/or cause to be implemented the
recorr.mendations agreed with the Bank after the carrying out of the mid-
term review, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall en3ure that, as soon as the customized Performance
Indicators' monitoring reports referred to in Section I.A. 1 (k) of this Schedule are
produced, thtse are peiman,ntly published in the Borrower's website and
accessible to is customer;.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in ac-ordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
each such semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have [ts Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited F:nancial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six mc nths after the end of such period.
- 13 -
Section III. 
Proc arement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Nc n-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services requi -ed for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be prccured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I o:the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provi;ions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refe, to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International[ Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitiv- Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competiti,ie Bidding undertaken in compliance with the special
provisions i- Part E cf this Section, and the public procurement laws and
regulations in effect as of May 23, 2012 or, if the Bank so agrees by written
notice to the Borrower, in compliance with such special provisions, laws and
regulations as they may have been subsequently modified.
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
01
- 14 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' sc rvices shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Qua ity and CoEt-baed Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Proc urerrient of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procuremelt Method
(a) Quality-based Selec ion
(b) Selection under a Fi <ed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selectior, based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single-scurce Selection of consulting firms
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Indi vidual Consultants
(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Section
or the Procurement Guicelines, the following additional provisions shall also
govern the procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants' services, under tht Project (as the case may be):
(a) 
Contracts of goods, works and non-consulting services shall not be
awarded to the "most convenient" bid but to the bid determined to be
substantially responsive and the lowest evaluated bid, provided that the
bidder is further detemined to be qualified to perform the contract
satisfactorily.
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in bidding processes
under National Co -npetitive Bidding.
- 15 -
(c) 
All procuremert shall be done using standard bidding documents,
standard reques's fcr proposals, model bid evaluation forms, model
proposal evaluation firms, and contract forms previously agreed with the
Bank. For consultant services contracts, only the types of contracts listed
in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines may be used. The use of
Convenios shall iot be allowed.
(d) 
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids in International
Competitive Bidding and National Competitive Bidding to be submitted
in order for a cot tract to be subsequently awarded.
(e) 
After the public opening of bids for goods, works and non-consulting
services, informatior relating to the examination, clarification and
evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall not be
disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this
process until the publication of contract award.
(f) 
Bidders, consulta nts and/or other persons not officially concerned with
said process shal not be allowed to make copies of other bidders' bids or
consultant propo,,als, as the case may be.
(g) 
Foreign and lo,al contractors, service providers, consultants, and
suppliers shall not b- required to register, establish residence in the
Borrower's territory, or enter into association with other national or
international bidcers as a condition for submitting bids or proposals. Bids
or proposals shal not be rejected if the corresponding contract cannot be
signed by the specific deadline established in the bidding documents due
to delays in the registration process.
(h) 
Foreign bidders s iall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their bids
or any docume itation related to such bids with the Borrower's
authorities as a prerequisite for participating in the selection process.
(i) 
There shall be no preference for domestic contractors.
(j) 
Foreign consultarts shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their
proposals or an) documentation related to such proposals with the
Borrower's authorities as a prerequisite for participating in the selection
process.
(k) 
The invitations t) bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings,
requests of exprcssions of interest, the evaluation report of bids and
proposals, and contract awards of all goods, works, non-consulting
services and consultants' services, as the case may be, shall be published
- 16 -
in a web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
(1) 
The Borrower sf.all: (i) supply the SEPA with the information contained
in the initial Prccurenent Plan within 30 days after the Effective Date;
and (.i) update tfe Procurement Plan at least every year, or as required by
the Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress
and s,4all supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated
ProcLrement Plan immediately thereafter.
(in) 
Compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any
given good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for
contract award.
(n) 
A twz-envelope system of procurement shall not be allowed in the
procurement of gDods, works or non-consulting services.
(o) 
The Borrower stall open all bids at the stipulated time and place. The
name of the bidder and total amount of each bid, and of any alternative
bids if they have been requested or permitted, shall be read aloud and
recorc.ed when opened and a copy of this record shall promptly be sent to
the Bank.
(p) 
The Eorrower shill apply the provisions of section V of the Consultant
Guidelines for the selection of all individual consultants (including for
outpul -based or time-based consultant assignments).
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withc raw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of :he General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional insITructions a. the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from tinie to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to su-.h instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specilies tne categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proc -eds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-17-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(exressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
41,895,000 
100%
consulting services., and
consultants' services,
Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
'2) Front-end Fee 
105,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
42,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the proN isior s of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed eight million four hundred
thousand Dollars (US$8,400,000) equivalent may be made for payments made
prior to the date of this Agreement but on or after May 14, 2012 (but in no case
more than one year p-ior to the date of this Agreement), for Eligible
Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2018.
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
AmDrtization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Bo-rower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such rep,.yable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 1'; and August 15
Beginning on August 1l, 2017
through August 15, 2034 
2.78%
On February 15, 2035 
2.7%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent tha' any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the frst Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balaice as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such w ithdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and th- denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Share5 for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amount3 repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounis referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applie...
-19-
.
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Prinzipal Paymnmt Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
folk wing the late of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following 1he date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time tht Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are iSSL ed o i or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
prov.sions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made afier the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank uder the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the WithdrEwn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisionE of this Sefedul, shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and CDrruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", datod October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2 
"Bank's Safeguard Pclicies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.35 and 4.37, as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.ori/og man ial.
3. 
"BMEI" means Busines; Management Efficiency Index, the corporate scorecard
developed tc track the Borrower's progress towards achieving key corporate
goals.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Construction Environmental Manual" means Manual Ambiental de Obras, the
Borrower's manual (acceptable to the Bank) attached as Annex 4 to the
Environmental Assessment, which outlines the additional procedures to minimize
the environmental impacts of the activities implemented under the Project.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" meEns the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 20 11.
7. 
"DMC" means District of Masurement and Control, an area of the Borrower's
distribution system whiih has been defined following a leakage management
approach, which include;; the closure of valves with the objective of metering the
quantities of water entering and leaving the district to reduce NRW; and "DMCs"
means, collectively, mor, than one DMC.
8. 
"EA" or "Environmental Assessment" means the Borrower's environmental and
social assessment repoit dated May 11, 2012, acceptable to the Bank, as
published and available -o the public on the website www.ose.com.uy, as it may
be amended and suppleraented from time to time with the Bank's prior written
approval, and which coritains the ESMP and the Construction Environmental
Manual.
9. 
"El" means Environmen:al Irdex, the corporate scorecard developed to track the
Borrower's compliance with the ESMP.
-21 -
1). 
"ESMP" or "Environme ital and Social Management Plan" means the Borrower's
plan (acceptable to the Bank) described in chapter 6 of the Environmental
Assessment and dated May 11, 2012, which contains, inter alia, measures to
manage potential envircnme,atal/social risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset
adverse environmental/.ocial impacts associated with the implementation of
activities under the Proj,ct, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, and provisions for managing
physical 
cLltural 
res urces 
encountered 
unexpectedly 
during 
Project
implementation.
1 1. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Developmeni General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
12. 
"GPFE" me-ns Gerencia de Programas con Financiamiento Externo, the
Borrower's Office for the Administration of Programs with External Funding, as
established Fursuant to the Borrower's Resolutions No. 1196/90 of May 16,
1990, No. 272/01 of Varch 7, 2001, No. 428/07 of April 18, 2007 and No.
1139/08 dated July 22, 2)08.
13. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of: (a) an involuntary taking of
land under the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i)
income source or means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the
affected persons must nove to another location); or (ii) right, title or interest in
any house, land (includiag premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other
fixed or movable asset aquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii)
access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or
(iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (b) an involuntary restriction of access
to legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes
an adverse impact on the live ihoods of the displaced persons.
14. 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization, an international-
standard-setting 
body composed of representatives from various national
standards organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and
commercial standards fo products.
15. 
"Law No. 11907" mean; the Guarantor's Ley No. 11907 of December 19, 1952
which established the Borrower, and such term also includes the regulations to
such law, as such law and regulations have been amended to the date of this
Agreement.
16. 
"NRW" means non-revenue water.
- 22 -
17 
"Operating Costs" meais the reasonable incremental expenses incurred on
account of Pr:oject implemnentation, management and monitoring, including, inter
alia, office supplies, ins irance, communication expenses, equipment, computer
operation and maintenar ce, supervision costs, travel and per diem, as well as
reasonable costs of Proj -ct promotional campaigning at the regional and local
levels.
I 
"Operational Manual" ineans the manual referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
19. 
"Performance Indicators" m.-ans the indicators set forth in the Operational
Manual, as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, including the BMEI and
the El.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
21. 
"Procuremeni Plan" me ins the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 23, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to thme in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
22. 
"RANC Unit" means Unidcd de Reducci6n de Agua No Contabilizada, the
Borrower's internal unit for the reduction of NRW, established pursuant to the
Borrower's Resolutions No. 118/00 dated February 2, 2000, No. 1304/05 of
August 31, 2005 and No. 1133/2008 dated July 22, 2008.
2^ 
"RPF" or "Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's framework
dated May 1 L, 2012, acoeptable to the Bank, as published and available to the
public on the website wwy.o3e.com.uy, as it may be amended from time to time
by agreement between :he Borrower and the Bank, and which describes the
principles, otjectives, and ap:roaches to be followed in minimizing any adverse
social impacts from carrying out Project activities, and the principles and
guidelines fcr the prepiration of any resettlement action plan that may be
necessary to mitigate an) Involuntary Resettlement.
24 
"SEPA" means Sistema de Ejecuci6n de Planes de Adquisiciones, the Bank's
publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System.
25 
"Training" means the reasonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower for the
carrying out of training activities under the Project, including, inter alia,
reasonable costs of travel, subsistence, rental of training facilities, and per diem
for trainers and trainees, registration fees and training materials.
- 23 -
26. 
"UGA" means Unidad de Gesti6n Ambiental, the Borrower's Environmental
Management Unit, as e;tablished pursuant to the Borrower's Resolutions No.
117/2000 of February 2, 2000, No. 1661/05 of November 1, 2005, No. 578/06 of
May 17, 2006, and No. 1139/08 of July 22, 2008.
