DOC 
r'1 3 2013
OFFICIAL 
N, 321
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8126-CL
Loan Agreement
(Tertiary Education Finance for Results Project III)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
N' 1 3 2013
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement, as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan
Agreement) 
between 
the 
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHILE 
("Borrower") 
and 
the
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.07 of Article II of
this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MINEDUC, in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 3.01 of this Article III of this
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
N' 1 3 2013
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01 
Pursuant to Section 7.02 (in) of the General Conditions, the Additional Event of
Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any TEI shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the respective Subproject Agreement, as the
case may be.
4.02 
Pursuant to Section 7.06 (f) of the General Conditions, the Additional Event of
Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any of the events specified in
paragraph 4.01 of this Article IV of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for
a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.04 of the General Conditions,
the Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18)
months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on September 13,
2013.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Facsimile: (56-2) 671-3814
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREE 
at 
f\ I. 
C 
on behalf of the Bank on
( 
ÅS-ý -Z. - 2Li1. and at 
ni 
C 
\_ 
on behalf of the Borrower on
PUBLIC OF CHILE
EUBLICA DE CH
MINISTRi 3
o zed Representative
' 
dINTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized R presentative
Countersigned on behalf of the
Treasurer General of the Republic of Chil
uthorized
u efsigned 
the 
hl
Co (foller Ge 
public o 
hile
By
Authorized Representative
Date:
-
R. 2013
Nr 
1 3 2013
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve quality and relevance for students in
tertiary education by strengthening the link between funding of tertiary education
institutions and accountability for performance.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Performance Agreements
Provision of support to TEIs to strengthen the link between funding and
accountability for performance, through the carrying out of Performance Subprojects.
Part 2: Policy Support and Project Management
(a) 
Provision of policy support and studies needed for the design and
implementation of the tertiary education 
reforms and potential
institutional arrangements.
(b) 
Provision of support to DIVESUP in the administration, monitoring,
coordination and supervision of the Project.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall maintain within DIVESUP, at all times
during the implementation of the Project, staff in adequate numbers and with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of assisting
DIVESUP in the overall coordination and implementation of the Project,
including fiduciary responsibilities.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall, and shall cause the respective TEls to,
carry out the Project (including the Subprojects) in accordance with the
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules,
methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of
the relevant parts of the Project, including the following: (a) the detailed
description of the Project activities and the institutional arrangements of the
Project; (b) criteria and methods for the selection of TEls; (c) the Project
administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow
aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement procedures; (d) the
criteria, guidelines and procedures for the approval, implementation and
monitoring of Performance Subprojects, including specifications regarding
Eligible Expenditures to be financed under the Performance Subprojects, targets
for measuring the progress on the objectives of each Performance Subproject,
together with remedies to be applied for not complying with said targets; (e) the
terms and conditions of Grants; (f) the monitoring indicators for the Project; and
(g) the IPPF. In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall
conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall, and shall cause the TEls to, ensure that
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Performance Subprojects
For the purposes of carrying out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower, through
MINEDUC, shall:
(1) 
after having selected a Performance Subproject in accordance with the
criteria, guidelines and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual,
-7-
N' 1 3 2013
and prior to the carrying out of said Performance Subproject by the
pertinent TEI, enter into an agreement with said TEI ("Subproject
Agreement"), for the provision of a Grant for the implementation of a
Subproject, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank and
included in the Operational Manual.
(2) 
ensure that each Subproject Agreement includes the terms and conditions
set forth in the Operational Manual, including the Borrower's rights to
protect its interests and those of the Bank, including the right to: (a)
suspend or terminate the right of the pertinent TEI to use the proceeds of
the Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant
then withdrawn, upon TEI's failure to perform any of its obligations
under the Subproject Agreement, including failure to reach the agreed
targets for the fulfillment of the objectives of the pertinent Subproject;
and (b) require each TEI to: (i) carry out its pertinent Performance
Subproject and comply with its objectives with due diligence and
efficiency and 
in accordance with sound technical, educational,
economic, financial, managerial and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds
other than the Borrower, and the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the carrying out of the Performance Subproject; (iii) procure the goods,
works, Non-Consulting Services and consultants' services to be financed
out of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(iv) specify funding commitments for implementation as per the costing
of proposed activities, including the amounts to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant; (v) maintain a simplified financial management
system and records in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank; (vi) specify Grant disbursement
provisions based on targets met; (vii) at the Bank's or the Borrower's
request, have the resulting financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; and (viii) enable
the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Performance Subprojects, its
operation and any relevant records and documents.
(3) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Subproject
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement or any
provisions thereof.
-8-
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall and shall cause the TEls to: (a)
implement the Project in accordance with the IPPF, when applicable; (b) comply
with the 
procedures detailed 
in 
said IPPF 
for screening, 
evaluation,
implementation and monitoring of Performance Subprojects; and (c) implement
the pertinent indigenous peoples development plans, in accordance with their
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall, and shall cause the TEls to ensure that
any works to be financed under the Performance Subprojects do not involve any
Resettlement.
Section II. 
Project Monitorina Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the performance
indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than sixty days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MINEDUC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall have the Financial Statements of the
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, or such other period agreed with the
Bank. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
-9-
N' 13 2013
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and Non-
consulting Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-consulting Services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
Non-consulting Services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
-10-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
(b) Quality-based Selection
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(d) Least Cost Selection
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.1 to 5.5 of the Consultants Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single Source Selection
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the selection of Individual Consultants set forth
in paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Special Provisions
(a) 
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this
Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following principles of
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods, Non-
Consulting Services and works under National Competitive Bidding
procedures:
(i) 
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
(ii) 
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be
submitted in order for 
a contract to be subsequently awarded.
(iii) 
ChileCompra, provided 
that the 
bidding 
documents 
are
acceptable to the Bank.
(iv) 
The Mercado Piblico Framework Agreements (MPFA) may be
used as an alternative to Shopping, as determined by the Bank,
provided that: (A) the specific MPFA does not restrict foreign
competition, and is limited to a maximum duration of 3 (three)
years; and (B) the maximum aggregate amount for the use of an
specific MPFA by each TEI set in the procurement plan is in no
-11-
gN' 
13 2013
case higher than the applicable Shopping maximum amount, and
shall be agreed with the Bank.
(b) 
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of
procurement shall expressly govern all employment of consultants:
(i) 
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of proposals to be
submitted in order for a contract to be subsequently awarded.
(ii) 
For small assignments not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent,
the procedures of ChileCompra may be 
followed 
as 
a
consultants' selection method acceptable to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006 and available to the public on the Bank's website www.worldbank.org, as
revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the maximum percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-12-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Goods, works, Non- 
38,000,000 
Up to 100% of the amounts
consulting Services, 
disbursed under the relevant
consultants' services, 
Grant
Scholarships, Training and
Operating Costs required
for Performance
Subprojects, under Part 1 of
the Project
(2) Consultants' services, 
1,900,000 
Up to 100%
Non-consulting Services,
goods, Operating Costs and
Training (except those
covered by Category (1)
above) required for Part 2
of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Paragraph 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in 
accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
-0- 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Paragraph 2.07 (c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000
1. 
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) 
the term "Operating Costs" means: (i) for Category (1), the reasonable
expenses incurred by the TEls as a result of the implementation of
Performance 
Subprojects, 
including: 
national 
and 
international
transportation, personnel and equipment insurance, per diem, registration
fees, honoraria, staff salaries, pedagogical expenses, maintenance and
services, basic services, taxes, permits and patents; and (ii) for Category
(2), the reasonable and necessary incremental expenditures related to the
operation 
of the 
Project 
and 
incurred 
on 
account 
of Project
implementation, monitoring, evaluation, coordination and supervision,
which would not have been incurred absent the Project, including: (A)
maintenance and operation of equipment and vehicles procured or used
for the management of the Project; (B) salaries paid to staff hired for the
purposes of the Project, other than the Borrower's regular staff's salaries
and honoraria; (C) travel costs and per diems; (D) consumable office
-13-
' 
1 3 2013
supplies and utilities; (E) communication, printing and publications; and
(F) bank charges.
(b) 
the term "Training" means 
expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower to finance reasonable
transportation costs and per diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable),
accommodations, catering, rental of training facilities, as well as training
materials and equipment under the Project; and
(c) 
the term "Scholarships" means reasonable expenditures, acceptable to
the Bank (as the same are determined in accordance with the provisions
set forth in the Operational Manual), in respect of the cost of tuition,
living allowance, insurance, books and learning materials, and/or
transportation costs and per diem (as the case maybe), to be granted to
selected TEls as part of any given Performance Subproject.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after December 1,
2011, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2).
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2016.
-14-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning December 15, 2016
through June 15, 2020 
12.5%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-15-
N' 
1 3 2013
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011, and
available to the public on the Bank's website www.worldbank.org
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011, and available to the public on the Bank's
website www.worldbank.org
4. 
"Conversion 
Guidelines" 
means, for a Conversion, the "Guidelines 
for
Conversion of Loan Terms" issued from time to time by the Bank and in effect at
the time of the Conversion, and available to the public on the Bank's website
www.worldbank.org.
5. 
"DIVESUP" means the Borrower's Divisi6n de Educacidn Superior, the
Borrower's division of higher education within MINEDUC, or any successor
thereof.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010, and available
to the public on the Bank's website www.worldbank.org
7. 
"Grant" means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan from the Borrower
to a selected TEI, for the partial financing of a Performance Subproject, as the
case may be, subject to the specific terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual.
8. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework or IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework dated January 26, 2012, published and available to the public on
MINEDUC's website (www.mecesup.cl) on January 27, 2012, which is
satisfactory to the Bank, detailing measures to mitigate potential adverse impacts
on indigenous peoples as a result of activities under Part 1 of the Project , and to
ensure that they benefit from the Project, including procedures for the preparation
and implementation of the pertinent indigenous peoples development plans, when
applicable.
-17-
4' 13 2013
9. 
"Mercado Pfiblico Framework Agreement or MPFA" means the bidding
procedure set forth in ChileCompra whereby the goods that could be purchased
from qualified providers, selected in open competition by the Borrower's
purchasing directorate, are listed in a catalogue with the authorized terms and
conditions (including prices) of such goods for purchases by any of the
Borrower's agencies.
10. 
"Mercado Pfiblico Portal" means the electronic platform of the procurement
system (-ChileConipra") set forth in the Borrower's Law No. 19886 of July 11,
2003 (Lev de Bases Sobre Contratos Administrativos de Suninistro y Prestaci6n
de Servicios), published in the Borrower's Official Gazette, dated July 30, 2003
and its regulations set forth in the Ministry of Finance's Supreme Decree No. 250
of September 24, 2004.
I 1. 
"MINEDUC" means Ministerio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's ministry of
education.
12. 
"Non-consulting Services" means the costs of services for which the physical
aspects of the activity predominate, are bid and contracted 
on the basis of
performance of measurable physical outputs, and for which performance
standards can be clearly identifies and consistently applied .
13. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated January 24, 2012 for the
operation of the Project, published and available to the public on MINEDUC's
website (\wx\.mecesup.cl) 
and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. The Operational Manual may be amended from time to time with the
Bank's non-objection.
14. 
"Performance Subproject" means a subproject to be carried out by a TEI under
Part I of the Project, aimed at supporting institutional or corporate changes
impacting the Borrower's tertiary education system, further described in the
Operational Manual and to be partially financed with a Grant under a Subproject
Agreement.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011, and available to the public on the
Bank's website www.worldbank.org
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 20, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
-18-
17. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iii)
access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or
(iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
18. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applied to all references
to "the date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions. Countersignature
dates by the Borrower's Treasurer General and Controller General are not
considered for purposes of establishing the Signature Date.
19. 
"Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements, as specified in Section
LC of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"TEl" means any of the Borrower's public and private tertiary education
institutions, including technical training centers, professional institutes and
universities.
-19-
