OFFiCIAL
OCUMENTSI
LOAN NUMBER 8151-UZ
Loan Agreement
(Advanced Electricity Metering Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
+rlI/ 
10 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 4pr<f f 
, 2013, between REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and eighty million
United States dollars ($180,000,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:
The Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following:
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing
for a period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The PMU established by the Project Implementing Entity is functioning
with a composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity has adopted the POM satisfactory to the
Bank.
(d) 
The Project Implementing Entity has 
established 
an automated
accounting system for Project accounting, budgeting and reporting
satisfactory to the Bank and has appointed a financial management
specialist for each of the three (3) distribution companies with terms of
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following:
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is Minister of Finance of the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Mustakilik Square 5
Tashkent 100008
Republic of Uzbekistan
Telex: 
Facsimile:
11 6360 IK BOL 
(998-71) 244-5643
(998-71) 239-1259
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
B
Authorized Representative
Name: 
42S-R7 
2MnQV
Title: /Yf,n/5rJ' 
r
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:1/.L 
q
Title: 
qn/i7 
A0,40
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to reduce commercial losses of the Project
Implementing Entity's three regional power distribution companies in Tashkent City and
the Oblasts of Tashkent and Syrdarya by improving their metering and billing
infrastructure, and the commercial management systems.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Advanced Metering Infrastructures
Supply and installation of: (1) advanced electricity meters (AEMs) for about 1.2
million low voltage customers and at low voltage sections of relevant distribution
transformers of the three regional distribution companies; (2) data concentrators,
and communication systems among various sub-systems, the centralized
management system in Tashkent and AEMs of both low voltage and, medium
and high voltage customers of the three regional distribution companies; and (3)
hardware and software of one metering data management system for each
regional distribution company, through the carrying out of works and the
provision of goods and consultants' services.
Part B: Energy Data management (EDM) /Billing/Archive System
1. 
Supply and installation of the hardware and software, as well as training and
after-sale services of a centralized EDM/billing/archiving center in Tashkent and
its applications for the three regional power distribution companies through
the carrying out of works and the provision of goods, consultants' services and
Training.
2. 
Migration of all the existing billing data to the databases of the new EDM/billing
system, through the provision of goods and consultants' services.
Part C: Management Efficiency Improvements and Project Implementation Support
1. 
Conducting an assessment of the electricity consumption patterns and physical
connection conditions of various customers to identify opportunities for reducing
commercial losses, starting from large consumers and to develop and implement
a loss reduction strategy, through the provision of consultants' services.
2. 
Business process re-engineering and institutional capacity strengthening for the
operation of the new advanced metering infrastructures and better utilization of
rich information collected by the said advanced metering infrastructures to
reduce commercial losses through the provision of goods and consultants'
services.
-7-
3. 
Developing a Project communication program to educate consumers of the
benefits of the new system, how it works and the responsibility of the consumers
to pay the electricity bills on time, through the provision of consultants' services.
4. 
Strengthening the Project Implementing Entity's capacity for Project management,
monitoring, 
reporting 
and 
evaluation, 
including 
procurement, 
financial
management and disbursement activities and carrying out the Project and the
Project Implementing Entity audit, through the provision of consultants' services.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, Subsidiary
Agreement and the Project Operations Manual and shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any provision of said Manual without the prior written
approval of the Bank.
2. 
For the purposes of assisting the Project Implementing Entity in the
implementation of the Project, and in order to ensure the proper coordination of
the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing
Entity to maintain within OJSC ORGRES throughout the duration of the Project,
the PMU with adequate resources and facilities, and professional staff in
adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall
be acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
For the purposes of assisting the PMU in the implementation of the Project in
each region, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, a PIU within each of the three
regional distribution companies in Tashkent City and the Oblasts of Tashkent and
Syrdarya, with adequate resources and facilities, and professional staff in
adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall
be acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement") including,
inter alia, that the principal amount of the Loan made available under the
Subsidiary Agreement ("Subsidiary Loan") shall be: (a) denominated in Dollars;
(b) repayable in Dollars or in the currency of the Borrower; (c) charged interest
on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate
equal to the interest rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement; and (d) repayable over a period of twenty five (25) years, inclusive
of a grace period of five (5) years.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish
to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.
-10-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions
set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2 required to comply with the provisions
of the Procurement Guidelines; (c) Shopping; and (d) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
179,550,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services and
Training for the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
450,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section 2.07
(b) of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
180.000.000
- 12 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this
Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017.
- 3-
Annex to Schedule 2
National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for goods and technical services (other than consulting services)
procured under the National Competitive Bidding procedures shall comply with the
following provisions:
1. 
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
(b) 
Where registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a reasonable
time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not be denied
registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-
qualification.
(c) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration
process is required, a foreign bidder declared the lowest evaluated bidder
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to register.
2. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national
daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and
submission of bids.
3. 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations
to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated
national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for
the submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical
and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification
documents.
4. 
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Uzbekistan shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and
financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent
agency of the contracting authority. 
Furthermore, they will be subject to the
same bid performance security requirements as other bidders.
5. 
Purchasers shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the
procurement of goods, works or services, acceptable to the Bank.
6. 
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids.
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents.
- 14 -
(c) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall
take place.
(d) 
Price verification should not be applied to Bank-financed contracts.
7. 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months)
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.
8. 
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's
prior concurrence.
(b) 
When the number of bids received is less than three (3), re-bidding shall
not be carried out without the Bank's prior concurrence.
-
5-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2017
through October 15, 2036 
2.5%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
- 16-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 17-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
5. 
"OJSC ORGRES" means the subsidiary company of the Project
Implementing Entity in Tashkent, established and operating by virtue of
its Charter dated March 13, 2006, or any successor thereto.
6. 
"PIU" means the Project implementation unit established within each of the three
regional distribution companies as referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of
this Agreement, 
established within OJSC ORGRES to carry out the
implementation and day to day management of the Project, and which shall
include, inter alia: (i) a project coordinator; (ii) a financial management
specialist; and (iii) a procurement specialist.
8. 
"POM" means the Project Operations Manual to be adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement, setting forth
the operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the
implementation of the Project, data collection and reporting, and which includes
a manual of financial management procedures that sets out procedures for Project
accounting, reporting and audit, disbursements, flow of funds and management
of the designated account as the same may be amended from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
- 18-
10. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 22, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
11. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means UZBEKENERGO STATE JOINT STOCK
COMPANY, a legal entity responsible for implementing the Project established
pursuant to the Decree of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. YrI-
2812 dated February 22, 2001, and the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of
the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 93 dated February 24, 2001, and existing under
the laws of the Borrower, and includes its successors and permitted assignees.
12. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Decree of the President of
the Republic of Uzbekistan No. YFI-2812 dated February 22, 2001 and the
Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 93
dated February 24, 2001, and associated documentation establishing, governing,
or otherwise regulating the Project Implementing Entity.
13. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
14. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with
carrying out training activities under the Project, including local travel costs and
per diem for local trainees, study tours, workshops, conferences, 
rental of
facilities and equipment and training materials and related supplies.
