cocuse
LOAN NUMBER 8199-IN
Loan Agreement
(Additional Fina ricin:y for Himachal Pradesh State Roads Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
a 
,201
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8199-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated TwAA 
at 
, 2013 between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for
providing additional financing for ictivities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Lorrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Condition; (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requ res otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.31. 
The Bank agrees to lend to tie Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the ariount of sixty one million seven hundred thousand Dollars
($61,700,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordaice with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdra" the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreemen.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee paya:le ty the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2,04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for tie Lc an Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the rc levait provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the forogoitig, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and stch ron-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Ilorrcwer shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the Ger.eral Condil ions
2.1-5. 
The Payment Dates are May 5 and November 15 in each year.
2.1:6. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set f:rth in Schedult 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower m.y at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in c rder to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency o' all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis app icable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (13) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or N ice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of tl e Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate C ap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion reqt ested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bant shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, nd shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the 3encral Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly followi.ig the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated frorn time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares it; commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisio is of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon :he rrovisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the B ink shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadli-e is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE V -- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5. 01. 
The Borrower's Represental ive is any of the following: Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Mir istry of Finance of the Borrower.
5 02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi 110 001
India
Facsimile:
91-11-23093422
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bffnk f )r Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-3-
AGREED at 
) 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: TA 
3411  
&Lg.
Title: 
<1 
L 
J.)
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
~ 
~ 
ALE
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The provisions of Schedule I to the Original Loan Agreement are incorporated herein by
ieference and apply :o the Proje-t.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
The provisions of Sect on 1 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement are
incorporated herein by reference and apply to the Project.
B. 
Anti-Corruplion
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corrupi ion Guidelines and those of the GAAP.
Section II. 
Project Monitorng teporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The provisions of Secti)n I1.A in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement are
incorporated herein by re 5erer ce and apply to the Project.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The provisions of Secti)n I[.B in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement are
incorporated herein by re 5erer ce and apply to the Project.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordanc- wil h the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceed3 of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of thi; Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitelized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or met iods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method de5 cribed in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II. III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
-6-
B1. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Compet tive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works z nd non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on Ihe basis of Intei national Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Pro4ure nent of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of gooc s, works and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procuremcnt Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set out in the Procurement Plan; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct
Contracting; and (d) Force Account.
C 
Particular Methods of Proc urement of Consultants' Services
1 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Prccurunent of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services fo- these contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) Quality-based Select on; I b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection;
(d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms; (f) Procedires set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Sole-source procedures
for the Selection of Individuel Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Pro urement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall ,et forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other -ont -acts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of LoaIi Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank sl.all specifj 
by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank anc. as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expendi ures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
-7-
2. 
The following table spicifios the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the procceds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, ar d the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Cat,-gori.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Civil 
works 
under 
61,545,750 
90%
Component 1 of the Project,
go-ds, consultants' services,
Tiaining, and R&R Assistance
(21 Front-end Fee 
154,250 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(3) Premia for Inte,-est Rate 
-0- 
Amount payable pursuant to
C;p and Interest Rate Collar 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 4.05 of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
61,700,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the pro visions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
p3yments made prior to the date of th is Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is Juno 30, 2016.
-8-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets 5orth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total )rinc ipal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Priacipal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Pr ncipal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withd -awn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deiuct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Co.aver3ion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2013
through May 15, 2030 
3.85%
On November 15, 2030 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loa i have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shal be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount wi:hdrE wn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the B ink by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fract on, the nuriera or of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Sha-e") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Orig.nal Installrient Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts r-payable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
refer-ed to in parag aph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of tho Lc an withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Paymcnt Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payabl 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
-9-
outstanding on :he second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and s iall )e repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the r -spective Principal Payment Date, the. provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no Icnger apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstandng the provisio:is of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any p-rtion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount sc cor verted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date :ccurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Convers on; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, 1he e <change rate component of the Screen Rate.
-10-
APPENDIX
Definitions
All definitions contained in tie Appendix to the Original Loan Agreement, other than the
definitions of the terms and expressions set forth below, are incorporated by reference in this
L3an Agreement, and shall apply nutatis mutandis to this Loan Agreement and to the Project
Agreement of the same date herowitli.
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidolinei" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Pro ects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Consultant Guidelines" neans the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants inder IBRD Loins and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
3. 
"GAAP" means the Gc,verrance and Accountability Action Plan, dated May 1, 2012,
adopted by the State of Himachal Pradesh and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the
key actions to be undertaken by the State of Himachal Pradesh to strengthen governance,
transparency and accourtabi ity under the Project, as such plan may be revised from time
to time with :he prior ag reerr ent of the Bank.
4. 
"General 
Conditions" 
meins the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General C:ndi ions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
5 
"Original Loan Agreemont" neans the loan agreement for Himachal Pradesh State Roads
Project between the BoTrow,r and the Bank, dated August 7, 2007, as amended to the
date of this Agreement (Loar No.4860-IN).
6 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
7 
"Original PrDject Agre,metit" means the Project Agreement dated August 7, 2007,
between the 13ank and the State of Himachal Pradesh.
8. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consultirig Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated Januaiy 2011.
9. 
"Procurement Plan" means t ie Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May
1, 2012 and referred to in p, ragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
-11-
