OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8237-CN
Loan Agreement
(Jiangxi Wuxikou Integrated Flood Management Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
6 
b 
, 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8237-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
, 2013 between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in Appendix 1 to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
($100,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity (Jiangxi) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project and the Linked Activities are carried out in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.03. 
The Borrower shall take all such actions as may be necessary to help facilitate the
realignment and construction of the Railway Line so as to ensure timely
completion of the construction of the Project Dam and its reservoir.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name
Title
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name 
/ 
uL 
4 
' 4
Title
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to reduce flood risk in the central urban area of
Jingdezhen City through implementation of priority structural and non-structural
measures, and contribute to establishment of an integrated flood risk management system
for the City.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Construction of Waxikou Flood Control Scheme
(a) 
Construction of a concrete gravity dam located on the main stem of
Changjiang River in Luoxi village, Jiaotan Township of Fuliang County
about 40 KM upstream of Jingdezhen City with a maximum dam height
of 46.8m and crest length of 499m, a gated overflow spillway with 5
gates and 6 bottom outlets, and a hydropower plant with a total installed
capacity of32 MW and annual power generation of 81,210 MWh.
(b) 
Acquisition and installation of electro-mechanical equipment of 5 radial
gates (each of 12m x 6m) for a 78m wide surface spillway and 6 plane
gates for the outlets (each of 12m x 9m), two 15-MW and one 2-MW
turbine-generator units, a switchyard and 2 transformers, and other
necessary equipment for the operation and maintenance of the dam.
(c) 
Implementation of the Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP).
(d) 
Carrying out of: (i) a comprehensive reservoir management plan
development study to identify issues related to future monitoring and
adaptive management of the implementation of the ESMP based on
evaluation of environment performance; and (ii) a second phase
cumulative impact assessment of the Project in the entire Changjiang
River Basin.
Part 2: Capacity Building for Integrated Flood Risk Management System
(a) 
Preparation of a master plan of integrated flood risk management for
Jingdezhen City.
(b) 
Development of an integrated flood risk management decision support
system including a real-time flood forecasting and early warning system
-6-
(modeling 
system) 
coupled 
with 
database, 
GIS 
and 
network
technologies.
(c) 
Construction of a municipal flood control and dispatching center,
including design study, building construction to facilitate efficient
functioning of the municipal flood management system.
(d) 
Provision of equipment for a municipal flood control and dispatching
center, including essential operation equipment to facilitate efficient
functioning of the municipal flood management system.
(e) 
Carrying out of awareness raising and community engagement activities
in integrated flood management through, inter alia, carrying out of
training and organizing seminars and workshops.
(f) 
Provision of specialized technical training for integrated flood risk
management for the purpose of raising awareness and engaging different
interest groups on risk management and mitigation.
Part 3: Implementation of Resettlement Action Plan
Carrying out a program for the resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected
by the implementation of the Project, including: (a) investment in resettlement;
(b) investment in special infrastructure; and (c) reallocation of effected section
of railway.
Part 4: Project Manaeement and Implementation Support
Strengthening the capacity of Jingdezhen City to implement and manage the
Project through, inter alia:
(a) 
provision of consulting services to enhance engineering design,
construction supervision, dam safety and environmental and social
management, including the formation and maintenance of a Dam Safety
Panel of Experts;
(b) 
carrying out capacity building activities through workshops, training and
study tours;
(c) 
establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation system
including a project management information system; and
(d) 
acquisition of office equipment and vehicles, and provision of operating
resources.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project
Implementing Entity (Jiangxi) and shall cause the Project Implementation Entity
(Jiangxi) to make said proceeds available to Jingdezhen City under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of 25 years, inclusive of a
grace period of 6 years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity: (a) to manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) to take, all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project, to
enable the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its
undertakings under this Agreement and the Project Agreement; and (c) to
maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project
and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other
information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to
time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity (Jiangxi) to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one (1) calendar year for the previous year, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than March 15 of each year, beginning on March 15, 2014.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the Report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.
3. 
The Borrower shall review the measures to be taken for Project implementation
as may be proposed in the mid-term review of the Project referred to in paragraph
A.2 of Section II of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and shall take all
necessary steps, satisfactory as the Bank, to facilitate the implementation of the
recommendations resulting from said review.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity (Jiangxi) to prepare and furnish to the
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester,
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (Jiangxi) to have the
Financial 
Statements 
audited 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
provisions 
of
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-9-
Section M. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General
Conditions; (b) if applicable, the Premium for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate
Collars in accordance with Section 2.07(c) of the General Conditions; and
(c) other Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-10-
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in Dollars) 
Financed
Category 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works 
91,240,000 
77%
(2) Goods 
3,030,000 
100%
(3) Consultants' services, 
5,480,000 
100%
Training, workshops and
study tour
(4) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Caps or 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Interest Rate Collar 
to Section 2.07(c) of
premium 
this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2012,
for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by
(b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2019 
2.63%
through March 15, 2037
On September 15 , 2037 
2.69%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
-12-
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 13 -
APPENDIX 1
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section TV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"Dam Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan" means the Plan of
Jingdezhen City (as hereinafter defined), prepared pursuant to paragraph 11 of
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and reviewed by the relevant
Dam Safety Panel and setting out measures, including organization, staffing
levels, procedures, equipment, and supervision qualifications, for supervision and
quality assurance of the construction of said Dam, as said Plan may be modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan.
5. 
"Dam Emergency Preparedness Plan" means the Plan of Jingdezhen City
prepared pursuant to paragraph 14 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, reviewed by the Dam Safety Panel and detailing, inter alia, the roles
of responsible parties during possible emergency situations when facility failure
is considered imminent or when expected operational flow release threatens
downstream life, property, or economic operations that depend on river flow
levels relating to the Project Dam and setting out measures, including clear
statements on the responsibility for operations decision making and related
emergency communications, maps outlining inundation levels for various
emergency conditions, flood warning system characteristics, and procedures for
evaluating threatened areas and mobilizing emergency forces and equipment, as
said Plan may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan.
6. 
"Dam Instrumentation Plan" means the Plan of Jingdezhen City prepared
pursuant to paragraph 12 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
reviewed by the Dam Safety Panel and setting out measures for the installation of
instruments to monitor and record the behavior of and the hydro-meteorological,
structural, and seismic factors relating to the Project Dam as said Plan may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and
such term includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan.
- 14 -
7. 
"Dam Operation, Maintenance and Surveillance Plan" means the Plan of
Jingdezhen City prepared pursuant to paragraph 13 of Section I of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, reviewed by the Dam Safety Panel and setting out
measures, including organizational structure, staffing, technical expertise, and
training required, equipment and facilities needed, procedures, and funding
arrangements, including long-term maintenance and safety inspections, for the
operation and maintenance of the Project Dam, as said Plan may be modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan.
8. 
"Dam Safety Panel" means the panel appointed by Jingdezhen City on January
15, 2012 consisting of three experts for the purposes, inter alia, of reviewing the
safety and operational aspects of the Project Dam and the Project Affected Dams
and to be maintained according to the provision of paragraph 9 of section I of the
schedule to the Project Agreement.
9. 
"Dam Safety Plans" means collectively the following Plans prepared or to be
prepared by Jingdezhen City for the Project Dam pursuant to paragraphs II to 14
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement: (i) the Dam Construction
Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan; (ii) the Dam Emergency Preparedness
Plan; (iii) the Dam Instrumentation Plan; and (iv) the Dam Operation,
Maintenance and Surveillance Plan.
10. 
"Dam Safety Remedial Action Plan" and the acronym "DSRAP" mean the Plan
dated December 4, 2012 prepared by Jingdezhen City and reviewed by the Dam
Safety Panel setting out remedial and safety measures to be carried out to
upgrade the Project Affected Dams to an acceptable standard of safety, including
repair and rehabilitation works to be carried out and measures to be taken for
strengthening the operational and emergency safety plans of said Dams.
11. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project and Linked Activities, have experienced or would experience direct
economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land,
resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets;
or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse
impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any
of such Displaced Persons.
12. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" and the acronym "ESMP" mean
the plan of Jingdezhen City dated December 4, 2012 adopted by it for the Project,
the Linked Activities and all ancillary activities related thereto including
construction of access roads, borrow pits, spoil disposal sites, resettlement sites
and workers camps, such plan setting forth, inter alia, the assessment of
- 15-
environmental impacts of the Project, including impacts on natural habitats,
wildlife, physical cultural resources, fish and aquatic biota, soil and water
conservation in the basin area of the Changjiang River, reservoir clearance, and
health 
and safety of villagers 
in the vicinity of construction 
sites,
recommendations for mitigation of adverse impacts and enhancement of positive
impacts based on such assessment, the detailed budget required, the guidelines
for environmental screening and monitoring of implementation and reporting
arrangements, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior
written approval of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes
supplemental to said Plan.
13. 
"Expert Group" means a group of experts established by Jingdezhen City and to
be maintained under the PMO according to the provisions of paragraph A. 1(b) of
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
15. 
"Independent Panel of Experts for Environment, Social and Resettlement and
Dam Safety" means the integrated Panel consisting of experts in the field of
environment, and social and resettlement, and including members of the Dam
Safety Panel, established by Jingdezhen City on October 15, 2012 for the
purposes, inter alia, of reviewing and advising on the preparation and
implementation of the ESMP, the RAP, the RPF, the Dam safety Plans and the
Dam Safety Remedial Action Plan.
16. 
"Jiangxi" means the Borrower's Province of Jiangxi or any successor thereto.
17. 
"Jingdezhen City" means the Borrower's city of Jingdezhen in Jiangxi or any
successor thereto.
18. 
"Jingdezhen City Dike System" means the ongoing program of Jingdezhen City,
financed from its own resources, which includes the construction of dikes along
sections of the Changjiang River to upgrade flood protection and rehabilitate the
city's urban drainage system and constitutes, together with the Wuxikou flood
control scheme to be financed under Part I of Project, the strategy of the city for
protection from 50-year flood event of the Changjiang River in the territory of
the Borrower.
19. 
"Linked Activities" means the activities linked to the Project consisting of: (a)
the Railway Line; (b) the Transmission Line; and (c) the Jingdezhen City Dike
System.
20. 
"Pest Management Plan" and the acronym "PMP" mean the Pest Management
Plan dated December 4, 2012 adopted by Jingdezhen City and to be implemented
-16-
or caused to be implemented by it for improving integrated pest management
activities during the design, construction and operation of the Project, including
environmental and safety risk assessment, capacity building, grievance handling
mechanisms, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements, as such plan may be
amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank; and such
term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said Plan.
21. 
"Project Affected Dams" means collectively the existing dams as set out in the
Project Implementation Plan located in an area lying upstream or downstream of
any facilities to be constructed or rehabilitated under the Project, and the
deficiencies of which may cause damage to the safe construction or operation of
the Project Dam or whose safe operation may be affected by the construction or
operation of the Project Dam, each such Dam to be reviewed by the Dam Safety
Panel in order to ensure its operational safety, including the preparation and
implementation for any such dam of required remedial safety measures.
22. 
"Project Dam" means the Dam to be constructed under Part 1(a) of the Project.
23. 
"Procurement and Financial Management Information System" means the
system, acceptable to the Bank, to be installed for the Project by Jingdezhen City
to improve internal controls, monitor the entire procurement process and
financial transactions, identify and cross-check errors, and improve external
reviews and auditing, and to be applied in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph B.4 of Section II of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
24. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
25. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project
dated December 18, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
26. 
"Project Agreement" means the Project agreement for the Project between
Jiangxi and the Bank dated the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank,
and such term includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
said Agreement.
27. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Plan dated January 20, 2013, adopted
by Jingdezhen City setting out the detailed arrangements and procedures for
implementing and supervising the Project, and to be carried out by Jingdezhen
City in the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from
- 17-
time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank; and such term includes
all attachments and annexes supplemental to said Plan.
28. 
"Project Implementing Entity" and the acronym "PIE" mean Jiangxi.
29. 
"Project Leading Group" means the project leading group established by
Jingdezhen City and to be maintained according to the provisions of paragraph
A. I (a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
30. 
"Project Management Office" or "PMO" means the office established within the
Water Resources Bureau of Jingdezhen City and to be maintained according to
the provisions of paragraph A.1 (b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
31. 
"Railway Line" means the portion of the Anhui-Jiangxi railway segment
measuring about 20 KM in length near Zhitan Town of Fuliang County in
Jingdezhen City which will be affected by the construction of the Project Dam
and its reservoir and will accordingly be moved and reconstructed with a
different alignment.
32. 
"RAP" means the Resettlement Action Plan dated August 30, 2012 duly adopted
by Jingdezhen City and to be implemented or caused to be implemented by it in
carrying out the Project, which plan sets out, inter alia: (a) the principles and
procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the Project and related
facilities, including construction camps, borrow pits, spoil disposal sites,
resettlement sites and quarries; (b) principles, actions and measures for the
payment of compensation to Displaced Persons under the Project and for their
resettlement and rehabilitation; (c) the findings of a due diligence review of the
actions and measures taken for the resettlement, rehabilitation and payment of
compensation to Displaced Persons under the Linked Activities that have been
completed, and the actions and measures to be taken to address any deficiency
identified or that may be indentified in the future, including the principles and
procedures to be followed in respect thereof; and (d) reporting and monitoring
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all
attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan.
33. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the policy framework, dated
December 4, 2012, adopted by Jingdezhen City, which sets out the policies and
procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of
people affected by the Linked Activities that will be carried out in the future and
that are not covered by RAP, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans
as may be required for the implementation of said Activities, as said policy
framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
- 18-
the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to
said Policy Framework.
34. 
"Training, workshops and study tours" mean the costs of training activities
under the Project, based on annual work plans and budgets approved by the
Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas study
tours, along with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants,
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of
training materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and
implementation.
35. 
"Transmission Line" means the line to be built to evacuate power from the
hydropower plant to be built under Part 1(a) of the Project.
