OFFtCIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8203-GT
Loan Agreement
(First Programmatic Fiscal Space for Greater Opportunities Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated NAef 
AS 
, 2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
Vewlb A2f 
'I, 
,2019, 
entered into between the REPUBLIC OF
GUATEMALA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under
the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the
Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and
the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal or exceed
$20,000,000 (twenty million Dollars) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to
a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. The Loan
may serve to finance all budgetary expenditures of the Borrower in support of the
Program, except for Excluded Expenditures, as set forth in this Agreement. To this end,
and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
- 2-
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inforn the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
(b) 
that an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action
or policy under the Program, including any action listed under Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the
Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 30
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement,
but in no case later than eighteen months (18) after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on March 27, 2014.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Public Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Finanzas Niblicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Civico, Zona 1
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A.
Telephone: (502) 23228888 
Facsimile: (502) 23229161
- 3-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at C. 
ry, 
C(A 
\7rJ 
c. 
o 
(o 
, as of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL 
FO
RECONSTRUC 
N AND D
By
Authorized Representative
- 4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program include the following:
1. 
To raise tax revenues, the Borrower has: (a) (i) widened the tax base subject to income
tax, through the reduction of the number of tax exemptions; (ii) simplified the tax rates
for salaried workers; and (iii) increased the tax rate on the circulation of land, sea and air
vehicles (ISCV), as evidenced by Legislative Decree 10-2012; and (b) reformed the value
added tax (VAT) regime for small taxpayers by expanding the eligibility criteria for this
VAT regime, as evidenced by Legislative Decree 4-2012.
2. 
To strengthen the control authority of the Tax Administration Superintendence, the
Borrower has: (a) introduced the requirement of bank-based transactions above a certain
threshold amount to be eligible for tax declaration purposes, as evidenced by Legislative
Decree 4-2012; and (b) aligned the Borrower's sanctions legislation on customs to the
Central American Uniform Customs Code (CAUCA), as evidenced by Legislative
Decree 10-2012.
3. 
To increase transparency and exchange of information on international taxation, the
Borrower has: (a) signed a separate tax information exchange agreement with Seven
Countries, as evidenced by the Tax Information Exchange Agreements; (b) introduced
the concept of transfer pricing in the valuation of transactions between Related Parties
(partes relacionadas), as evidenced by Legislative Decree 10-2012; and (c) signed a
memorandum of understanding with the United States of America, dated May 30, 2012,
which provides for the exchange of relevant tax information between both countries
concerning the declared value of imports and exports.
4. 
To improve budget management and implement a results-based methodology of public
expenditure, the Borrower's Ministry of Public Finance and Ministry of Public Health
and Social Assistance have signed a results-based management agreement, dated June 28,
2012, whereby the Borrower commits to, inter alia, allocate budget towards meeting
specific targets for reproductive and nutritional health programs for calendar year 2012.
5. 
To improve the coordination in the design and implementation of social policies, the
Borrower has: (a) created the Ministry of Social Development (MIDES), as evidenced by
Legislative Decree 1-2012, dated January 24, 2012, and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on February 7, 2012; and (b) adopted the Zero Hunger Plan, as
evidenced by the CONASAN Resolution 01-2012, dated June 19, 2012.
6. 
To strengthen the participation of trade unions, cooperatives and the business sector in
public economic and social policy-making, the Borrower has created the Economic and
Social Council (CES), as evidenced by Legislative Decree 2-2012, dated January 24,
2012 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 23, 2012.
- 5-
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Tranche
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
199,500,000
Front-end Fee 
500,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2013.
- 6-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2023
through March 15, 2037 
3.33%
On September 15, 2037 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
- 7-
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 8-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"CES" means Consejo Econ6mico y Social de Guatemala, the Borrower's Economic and
Social Council, created by Legislative Decree 2-2012, dated January 24, 2012 and
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 23, 2012.
2. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
-9-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
3. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the 
"International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
4. 
"Legislative Decree 4-2012" means Disposiciones para el Fortalecimiento del Sistema
Tributario y el Combate a la Defraudaci6n y el Contrabando, the Borrower's provisions
to strengthen the tax system and combat fraud and smuggling, dated January 26, 2012,
and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 17, 2012.
5. 
"Legislative Decree 10-2012" means Ley de Actualizaci6n Tributaria, the Borrower's
legislative decree on tax, dated February 16, 2012, and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on March 5, 2012.
6. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated August 22, 2012 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
7. 
"Related Parties" means partes relacionadas, a set of two people where one is a resident
in the Borrower's territory and the other is a resident of a different country, and when the
conditions set forth in Article 56 of Legislative Decree 10-2012 are met.
8. 
"Seven Countries" means the following countries: the Kingdom of Denmark, Greenland,
the Faroes, the Republic of Finland, Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, and the Kingdom
of Sweden.
9. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
- 10-
10. 
"Tax Administration Superintendence" means Superintendencia de Administracidn
Tributaria, the Borrower's tax administration agency, created by the Borrower's
Legislative Decree 1-98, dated January 12, 1998, and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on February 13, 1998.
11. 
"Tax Information Exchange Agreements" means each of the following agreements: (a)
agreement between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Denmark; (b) agreement between
the Borrower and Greenland; (c) agreement between the Borrower's and the Faroes; (d)
agreement between the Borrower and the Republic of Finland; (e) agreement between the
Borrower and Iceland; (f) agreement between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Norway;
and (g) agreement between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Sweden, all dated May 15,
2012.
12. 
"Zero Hunger Plan" means Plan Hambre Cero, the Borrower's plan to fight chronic
malnutrition, approved by the Borrower's National Council of Food and Nutrition
Security's Resolution No 1-2012, dated June 19, 2012.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
-11-
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
- 12-
