OfFICtA.
DOCUMEN
LOAN NUMBER .8267-AM
Loan Agreement
(Irrigation System Enhancement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,201_5
1
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated Ia4 
g 3 , 201,), 
between 
REPUBLIC 
OF 
ARMENIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNA IONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million United States dollars (US$30,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the SCWM under the MOTA of the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty days (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
3
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
I Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
374 10 524282
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
4
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
AuthoriAd 
epresentative
Name: Lx vil 
a 2qS CL/2-
Title: mf'na2 
Lo/7nce
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name, 
(
Title: 
LM 
in 
(
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce the amount of energy used and improve
irrigation conveyance efficiency in targeted irrigation schemes; and (ii) improve the availability
and reliability of important sector data and information for decision-makers and other
stakeholders.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Irrigation System Enhancement
1. 
Conversion of pump-based irrigation to gravity through the construction of four gravity
systems in Meghri, Gegardalich, Baghramyan-Norakert and Kaghtsrashen.
2. 
Upgrading of outlet and other canals conveying pumped water through the rehabilitation
of about 52km of outlet canals in thirteen (13) selected pumping schemes.
Part B: Management Information
1. 
Conducting technical investigations to: (a) analyze the operation and maintenance needs
and the extra-ordinary maintenance needs of irrigation institutions; (b) carry out a
technical audit of the Water Supply Agencies and the WUAs.
2. 
Installation of a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system at about
seventy (70) observation points on the main canals and at selected intakes.
Part C: Proiect Management and WUAs Support
I. 
Provision of support to the PIU in Project management, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation through the provision of goods, consultants' services including audit, and
Operating Costs.
2. 
Provision of support to the WUAs management, personnel, and members to improve their
technical, operational, financial and organizational capacity and performance through the
provision of consultants' services, and Training.
6
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through SCWM, shall designate the PlU with the responsibility for
procurement 
planning, 
monitoring 
and 
reporting, 
financial 
management 
and
disbursement, maintenance of Project accounts and preparation of Project reports, and
shall ensure that PIU at all times shall have adequate staff and resources to fulfill its
responsibilities with respect to Project implementation and management.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Operations Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or
waive any provision of the Operations Manual if, in the opinion of the Bank, such
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project
or the achievement of the objective thereof.
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain the WUA's Support Group within the PIU until completion
of the Project which shall assist in the implementation of Part C.2 of the Project.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that necessary budgetary resources are made available to the
irrigation sector for maintenance of irrigation systems in the Borrower's annual budget.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SCWM, shall: (a) apply
for the activities under Part A of the Project the criteria, policies, procedures and
arrangements set out in the EMF, EMPs, EIAs, RPF and RAPs as required; and (b) not
amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived the EMF, EMPs, EIA, RPF and
RAPs, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, may
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through SCWM, shall:
(a) 
ensure that: (i) civil works on any particular irrigation scheme or section of a
scheme selected under Part A of the Project will not start, unless an EMP for that
scheme or a selected section, satisfactory to the Bank, has been prepared by the
Borrower and disclosed locally, and on the SCWM website; and (ii) the
arrangements are made for public review and comment of said EMP, any
comments received have been responded to in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
7
and the final approved version of the EMP has been disclosed locally; and (iii)
any provision of the respective EMP is not assigned, amended, abrogated or
waived without prior review and approval of the Bank.
(b) 
ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of carrying out of Part A of
the Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank;
(c) 
ensure that the selection of any irrigation scheme or section of a scheme under
Part A of the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of its
respective EMP;
(d) 
ensure the complete implementation of the EMPs in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, including all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse
environmental impacts caused by the implementation of Part A of the Project;
and
(e) 
maintain the SCWM, and ensure that it has appointed competent staff in adequate
numbers and with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank as
shall enable the SCWM to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation
of the EMPs.
3. 
Where the need to acquire land along a specific irrigation scheme or section of a scheme
arises, the Borrower, through SCWM, shall:
(a) 
prepare and disclose to the public a RAP acceptable to the Bank, not later than
thirty (30) days before the begin of civil works on the respective irrigation
scheme or section of a scheme;
(b) 
maintain or cause to be maintained and publicize or cause to be publicized, the
availability of, grievance procedures to hear and determine fairly and in good
faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints raised in relation to the
implementation of the RAPs by those being affected and/or resettled (as that term
is defined in the RAP) or by those communities who are adversely affected by
the implementation of the RPF, as the case may be, and take all measures
necessary to implement the determinations made under such grievance
procedures; and
(c) 
take all such other actions as the Bank may consider necessary or desirable,
including, without limitations: (i) employ a resettlement expert, satisfactory to
the Bank, to conduct an ex post review of the implementation of the RAPs; (ii)
furnish promptly to the Bank the findings and recommendations for follow up
action resulting from each such review; and (iii) implement all such
recommendations for follow up action as are agreed with the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through SCWM, shall:
8
(a) 
not later than March 15, 2015, update and thereafter implement the Dam Safety
Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall not amend, revise
or waive the Dam Safety Plan without the prior written consent of the Bank.
(b) 
not later than October 15, 2013 create and thereafter maintain at all times,
throughout 
Project 
implementation, 
a 
Dam 
Safety 
Panel 
comprising
environmental and social experts, under terms of reference, composition and
resources satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose of reviewing and advising the
Borrower on safety and other critical aspects of the design, construction and
operations of dams.
(c) 
Thereafter, the Borrower shall ensure that the recommendations of the panel of
experts described in (a) above are properly followed and implemented in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, and for said purpose the Borrower shall take
and/or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to comply with said
recommendations.
9
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (60) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
10
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for procurement of goods,
works and non-consulting services for the Project, provided that the following
provisions are complied with:
(i) 
entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority shareholding shall
not be invited to participate in tenders for the Government unless they are and
can be shown to be legally and financially autonomous and operate under
commercial law;
(ii) 
post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract performance,
financial, managerial and technical capabilities of bidders;
(iii) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their obligations;
(iv) 
estimated contract prices shall not be advertised;
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening;
(vi) 
no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated price. Bids
can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions of clause 2.61 of
the Procurement Guidelines are met;
(vii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or expressed
as a pass/fail criteria; and
(viii) 
advance Bank's approval is required for any modifications in the contract
scope/conditions during implementation.
(b) 
Shopping
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
11
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Fixed-Budget Selection
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants Qualification
(e) 
Single Source Selection
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultants Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
12
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
29,925,000 
80%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
75,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in 
accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30,000000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017.
13
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning on November 15, 2023, 
3.33%
through November 15, 2037
On May 15, 2038 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
14
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
15
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment 
of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
4. 
"Dam Safety Panel" means a group to be established by the Borrower with composition
and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank consisting of national and
international experts to review the design of, and oversee implementation of safety
measures for the reconstruction of the Gegardalich dam under Part 1(a) of the Project.
5. 
"Dam Safety Plan" means the plan approved by the Borrower on February 12, 2003 and
referred to in Section I.C.4 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
6. 
"EIA" means the Borrower's environmental impact assessment report prepared for the
Meghri scheme under Part A. 1 of the Project, acceptable to the Bank dated March 29,
2013, consisting of inter alia: (i) a description of the site where construction activities are
to be carried out under the Project and the justification for said activities; (ii) the potential
environmental impacts of the construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i)
above; and (iii) an environmental management plan setting forth adequate mitigating
measures and systems required to monitor the implementation of the construction
activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above and to ensure compliance of such
activities with said measures with a view to limiting any actual and potential adverse
environmental impact.
7. 
"EMF" means the Borrower's Environmental Management Framework, acceptable to the
Bank, dated March 29, 2013, outlining the procedures for: (a) screening individual
Project investments based on their expected impact on the natural and social
environment, (b) evaluating their risks, (c) defining a need for environmental assessment
as part of procedure for preparing EMPs and scope of environmental assessment as
required, (d) disclosure, and (e) monitoring of EMP implementation.
8. 
"EMP" means site-specific environmental management plans, acceptable to the Bank,
derived from the EMF and to be prepared during the implementation of the Project
previous to the commencement of any civil works under the Project, describing the
environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken during
the implementation of the Project.
16
9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
10. 
"MOTA" means the Ministry of Territorial Administration of the Borrower or any
successor or successors thereto.
11. 
"Operating Costs" means operating expenditures incurred by the PIU and WUA's and the
site supervisors on account of the Project implementation, management and monitoring,
including operation and maintenance of vehicles, social charges, office equipment
operation and supplies, communication costs, support for information systems, translation
costs, bank charges, travel and per diem costs and other reasonable expenditures directly
associated with the implementation of the Project activities, all based on an annual budget
acceptable to the Bank.
12. 
"Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated April 15, 2013, describing
procedures for the implementation of the Project, consistent with the provisions of this
Agreement and with the national laws and regulations of the Borrower, including
procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management,
monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the Project; as the same may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
13. 
"Pest Management Plan" means the plan for the safe handling, use and disposal of
pesticides used by the beneficiaries of the Project and awareness raising on the integrated
pest management, which is to be included within the EMPs.
14. 
"PIU" means the Water Sector Development and Institutional Improvements Project
Implementation Unit operating within the SCWM under the MOTA of the Borrower.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated April
5, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"RAP/s" means the resettlement action plan/s to be prepared and approved by the
Borrower pursuant to Section C.3 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as implementing
recommendation of the RPF for selected canal section/s under the Project.
18. 
"RPF" means the resettlement policy framework, prepared and approved by the Borrower
on March 29, 2013, defining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and
rehabilitation of displaced persons under Part A of the Project.
19. 
"SCWM" means the State Committee for Water Management under the MOTA of the
Borrower which will be responsible for overall implementation of the Project.
17
20. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred on account of Project related study tours,
training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, including travel and
per diem costs of trainees and trainers.
21. 
"Water Supply Agencies" means a state owned closed joint stock company responsible
for maintaining and operating the upper level irrigation system, established pursuant to
the Decree No. 1301, dated December 29, 2001, or any legal successor thereto.
22. 
"WUA" means the Water Users Associations defined in the Borrower's WUA Law dated
October 10, 2002.
23. 
"WUA's Support Group" means the PlU staff responsible for carrying out Part C.2 of the
Project.
18
