OfFIC1AL
DOCUMENTS,
LOAN NUMBER 8083-CO
Loan Agreement
(Support to the National Urban Transit Program Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
1/t. 
2' 
,2012
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
2{2epy 
f 
, 2013, between 
REPUBLIC 
OF
COLOMBIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred ninety two million
Dollars ($292,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in the financing of Part A, the partial
financing of the Borrower's Contribution for Part B (integrated mass transit
system-sistema integrado de transporte masivo) and Part C (strategic public
transit system-sistema estratigico de transporte piiblico) of the project described
in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of
the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall, through MOT: (a) carry out Part A of the Project; and
(b) cause the Implementing Entities to carry out Part B and Part C of the Project
with the assistance of the Participating Cities; all in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and pursuant to the Subsidiary
Agreements.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through MOT, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
Any of the Subsidiary Agreements or any of their provisions shall have
been amended, suspended, waived or nor enforced so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank and/or of the
-2-
Borrower, the ability of the Borrower, through MHCP or MOT, the
corresponding Participating City or the corresponding Implementing
Entity to perform any of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and/or under the corresponding Subsidiary Agreements;
(b) 
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable 
that the 
Borrower, through 
MHCP or MOT, the
corresponding Participating City and/or the corresponding Implementing
Entity shall be able to carry out any of their respective obligations under
any of the Subsidiary Agreements;
(c) 
Any of the Participating Cities and/or any of the Implementing Entities
shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations under their
corresponding Subsidiary Agreement, in connection with the Project; and
(d) 
The NUTP Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived or not enforced so as to affect materially and adversely,
in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower, through MHCP or
MOT, the Participating Cities and/or the Implementing Entities to
perform any of their corresponding obligations under this Agreement
and/or under any of the Subsidiary Agreements, as the case may be.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
Each of the updated Subsidiary Agreements for the Large Participating
Cities has been executed by the parties thereto, as set forth in Section
I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been updated by the Borrower, through
MOT, as set forth in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(c) 
The additional financial management staff referred to in Section I.A.3.1
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been hired in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, that the updated
Subsidiary Agreements referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement have
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, through MHCP and MOT, the
Participating Cities and the Implementing Entities, and are legally binding upon
the Borrower, the Participating Cities and the Implementing Entities in
accordance with their respective terms (as reflected in legal opinions to the Bank
-3-
from counsel representing the Borrower, the corresponding Participating City and
the corresponding Implementing Entity under each Subsidiary Agreement).
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than October 21, 2013.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance and Public Credit of
the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Carrera 8, N* 6 C-38, Piso 3
Bogota, D.C.
Colombia
Facsimile: (571) 350-9344
Correspondence to be copied to:
Ministry of Transport
Avenida el Dorado C.A.N. Transversal 45 No. 47-14
BogotA, D.C.
Colombia
Facsimile: 571 324-0800 Ext. 1139
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
oa150 & , 
1(0 b 7) 
, as of the day
and year first above written. 
(j
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By 
rA
Authorized Representative
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A 
rized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the efficiency, affordability, quality, safety and
environmental sustainability of the provision of public transit services in the Participating
Cities.
The Project consists of the following three parts.
Part A:Implementing Capacity Building
Strengthening of institutional capacity, at the national level, through the provision of
technical assistance in support of the Borrower's formulation of national urban transport
programs and strategies pursuant to the NUTP, through, inter alia:
1. 
Strengthening of the technical, functional and operational capacity of the MOT
to:
(a) 
monitor and support the integrated mass transit systems and the strategic
transit systems in the following areas: (i) administration, financial
management and accounting; (ii) resettlements and social management;
(iii) environmental management; (iv) procurement and civil works
monitoring; and (v) monitoring and evaluation;
(b) 
promote and strengthen its institutional mandate to: (i) formulate,
evaluate and monitor transport policies and land use; (ii) manage service
demand, climate change mitigation measures, and environmental quality;
(iii) coordinate and articulate the Borrower's entities and local
governments in relation to urban mobility; and (vi) support and promote
the private sector's development through the provision of technical
assistance; and
(c) 
streamline current procedures to: (i) provide technical advice, data
management and support to the Implementing Entities through the
provision of equipment and specialized software; (ii) implement a
monitoring and evaluation systems of urban transport systems associated
to the NUPT; and (iii) implement financial information systems to track
funds provided by the Borrower for the implementation of the NUPT.
2. 
Strengthening of the Implementing Entities, through:
(a) 
the carrying out of training programs targeted at local authorities,
Implementing Entities and other local stakeholders involved in the
-6-
design, implementation, operation, maintenance, and fare collection of
transit systems;
(b) 
the implementation 
of training 
programs, 
aimed at 
providing
opportunities to local staff in Implementing Entities to attain advance
degrees and advance to leadership position within their respective
Implementing Entities; and
(c) 
the design and implementation of training programs including, inter alia,
the following strategic areas: construction and operation of urban
mobility subprojects, pavements, transit-demand management, transit-
oriented urban development, road safety, social management and land
acquisition, and environmental management.
3. 
Provision of technical support to:
(a) 
design comprehensive urban mobility plans, including the review,
evaluation and monitoring of said plans;
(b) 
define the logistics necessary to implementing the operation of
multimodal transfer hubs, including, the integration of private and public
vehicles;
(c) 
design operational and financial plans for integrated mass transit
systems;
(d) 
create and implement marketing strategies for mass transit systems
aimed at fostering ownership among citizens and potentially increase
ridership levels;
(e) 
respond effectively to public and private stakeholders involved in the
provision of public transport services, including, inter alia, (i) supporting
their institutional strengthening; (ii) promoting formalization processes
within the sector; and (iii) capturing and optimizing private sector capital
investments aimed at strengthening urban mobility systems;
(f) 
identify legal aspects related to mobility issues at the national level to: (i)
protect the Borrower's public interest; and (ii) strengthen public-private
contractual relationships;
(g) 
strengthen and streamline: (i) the current conflict resolution mechanisms;
and (ii) the technical and operative capacity for the implementation and
stabilization of transport systems; and
-7-
(h) 
the revision and analysis of mobility-related regulatory and legal
frameworks for purposes of maintaining up-to-date information of the
Borrower's urban transport policy for its cities.
Part B: Integrated Mass Transit System
1 .
Expansion of the physical scope and geographical and social coverage of the
NUTP in the Large Participating Cities, through the carrying out of, inter alia,
any of the following selected activities:
(a) 
the revision of detailed engineering designs;
(b) 
the construction of bus rapid transport segregated busways;
(c) 
the construction of bus stops, terminals and transfer centers;
(d) 
the construction of mixed-traffic lanes adjacent to busways corridors;
(e) 
the construction of sidewalks and bicycle paths;
(f) 
the rehabilitation of feeder routes;
(g) 
the construction of pedestrian ways along busways corridors, including
pedestrian bridges;
(h) 
the construction or adaptation of complementary transport corridors to
the segregated busways;
(i) 
the carrying out of required adaptation and/or relocation of public service
networks adjacent to the construction areas;
(j) 
the construction of bus workshops and parking;
(k) 
the review and upgrading of technical designs; and
(1) 
the carrying out of supervision (interventorias) of construction works
referred to in this paragraph B.1, all under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank.
2. 
(a) 
Provision of financing for the acquisition of land required for the
carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project.
(b) 
Provision of financing for the resettlement of, and the provision of
compensation to, Affected Persons pursuant to the provisions of the
-8-
corresponding RAP, in connection with the carrying out of Part B.1 of
the Project.
3. 
Design and implementation of EMPs for the carrying out of Part B.1 of the
Project.
Part C: Strategic Public Transit System
1 .
Expansion of the physical scope and geographical and social coverage of the
NUTP in the Medium Participating Cities through the carrying out of, inter
alia, any of the following selected activities:
(a) 
the development of detailed Project engineering designs of integrated
transport systems, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
the construction and rehabilitation of road networks;
(c) 
the construction and rehabilitation of sidewalks, public space, pedestrian
ways along bus corridors and bicycle paths;
(d) 
the construction of pedestrian bridges;
(e) 
the construction of bus stops, terminals and transfer centers;
(f) 
the construction of bus workshops and parking places;
(g) 
the acquisition of control centers for strategic public transport systems,
including fleet control, traffic lights and traffic signaling;
(h) 
the rehabilitation and renewal of historic centers;
(i) 
the provision of equipment and training to the Implementing Entities;
(j) 
the hiring of specialized technical staff for the Implementing Entities for
the implementation of the Project;
(k) 
the financing of Operating Costs;
(1) 
the hiring of Project auditors;
(m) 
the design and construction of centers of public citizen services;
(n) 
the design and implementation of broad communication strategies; and
-9-
(o) 
the supervision (interventorias) of all the activities specified in
paragraphs (a) through (n) of Part C.1 of the Project, all under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
(a) 
Provision of financing for the acquisition of land required for the
carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project.
(b) 
Provision of financing for the resettlement of, and the provision of
compensation to, Affected Persons pursuant to the provisions of the
corresponding RAP, in connection with the carrying out of Part C.1 of
the Project.
3. 
Design and implementation of EMPs for the carrying out of Part C.1 of the
Project.
-10-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
General Implementation Framework
1. 
Institutional Arrangements
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower, through MOT, shall cause the Implementing Entities (with
the assistance of the Participating Cities) to carry out their respective
Parts of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency pursuant to the
Subsidiary 
Agreements 
and 
in 
conformity 
with administrative,
engineering, environmental, financial, managerial, social, technical, and
urban practices satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MOT shall:
(i) 
operate and maintain (under the purview of MOT's Deputy
Minister 
of Transport), 
at 
all 
times 
during 
Project
implementation, a "PCU" with a structure, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the
responsibility of the PCU to assist the Borrower in the
coordination and follow-up of the Project;
(ii) 
ensure that the PCU is, during Project implementation, headed
by a Project coordinator and staffed with a core team consisting
of, at least, an environmental specialist, a resettlement specialist,
a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, and
other professional and administrative staff, all hired with
functions and responsibilities and with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank; and
(iiii) 
ensure that each of the Implementing Entities is staffed with a
core team with functions, responsibilities, qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank, all throughout Project
implementation, 
in 
the 
following 
areas: 
environment,
resettlement, procurement, and financial management, and
ensure that said core team is supported by any other professional
and administrative staff, as appropriate.
-11-
2. 
Operational Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall maintain, until the completion of the
Project, 
an 
Operational 
Manual, 
approved 
by the Bank. 
The
Borrower shall, and shall cause the Participating Cities and the
Implementing Entities to, carry out the Project in accordance with the
Operational Manual. Said Operational Manual shall include, inter alia:
(i) 
detailed arrangements for the overall carrying out of the Project
activities;
(ii) 
an institutional implementation plan for MOT, the Participating
Cities and the Implementing Entities for the management of their
respective Parts of the Project (including, inter alia, allocation of
responsibilities among staff, yearly planning of activities and
budget and time allocation for those activities), and the
establishment 
and 
maintenance, 
throughout 
Project
Implementation, of a Social Management Team in each
Implementing Entity;
(iii) 
the criteria for the selection of Participating Cities and
Implementing Entities;
(iv) 
the technical requirements for the sustainability of the Project (in
particular, with respect to the Medium Participating Cities);
(v) 
the Procurement Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines to be
followed by the Borrower, through MOT, the Participating Cities
and the Implementing Entities in accordance with the provisions
of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(vi) 
the financial management arrangements to be followed during
Project implementation by the Borrower, through MOT, the
Participating Cities and the Implementing Entities;
(vii) 
the guidelines and procedures for a grievance mechanism to
handle procurement complaints by the Implementing Entities;
(viii) 
the RPF and the EMF pursuant to the provisions of Section I.D
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(ix) 
the procedures for the use of Loan proceeds for the
implementation of Part B and Part C of the Project;
(x) 
the Project monitoring indicators; and
-12-
(xi) 
the conditions and institutional responsibilities for the provision
of Loan proceeds to the Fiduciary Agents and the carrying out of
land acquisition and compensation procedures for the purposes
of the activities detailed in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to
enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
Special Financial Management Arrangements
1 .
The Borrower, through MOT, shall:
(a) 
hire and thereafter maintain throughout the implementation of the Project
additional financial management staff in numbers and with experience
and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, which shall contribute to
strength the compliance for, inter alia, coordinating and following up the
quality control functions of the PCU in connection with: (i) the
reimbursement of Loan proceeds received by the corresponding
Fiduciary Agents; and (ii) the payments made by such Fiduciary Agents
to the corresponding Implementing Entity; and
(b) 
cause each of the Implementing Entities to be staffed, throughout Project
Implementation, with financial management staff with functions,
responsibilities, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank;
which shall be responsible for, inter alia, supervising and following up
the quality control functions of the corresponding Implementing Entity in
connection with the reimbursement of Loan proceeds received by the
corresponding Fiduciary Agent.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreements
To facilitate the carrying out of Part B and Part C of the Project, the Borrower,
through MHCP, MOT and DNP, shall maintain through Project implementation,
a Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the Participating
Cities and the relevant Implementing Entity, which shall include inter alia, the
following:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through MHCP, to:
(i) 
upon request submitted by MOT, transfer to the respective
Implementing Entity the portion of Loan proceeds to cover the
-13-
Borrower's Contribution required to carry out its respective
activities under Part B or Part C of the Project, through a
Fiduciary Agent, satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to the
pertinent Fiduciary Trust Arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank,
and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the
corresponding Subsidiary Agreement, and the Operational
Manual; and
(ii) 
suspend disbursements of Loan proceeds, or cancel Loan
amounts to be disbursed in the event that any Participating City
and/or any Implementing Entity fails to comply with any of their
respective 
obligations 
under 
the 
respective 
Subsidiary
Agreement, including compliance with the respective provisions
of this Agreement and/or the respective provisions of the
Operational Manual;
(b) 
the obligation of the Implementing Entities (with the assistance of the
Participating Cities) to:
(i) 
carry out their respective activities under Part B or Part C of the
Project in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this
Agreement;
(ii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the carrying out of the activities
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, all of this under the
terms and conditions set forth in the provisions of this Schedule;
(iii) 
use the Loan proceeds in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the Operational Manual, only for the purposes of the
Project and pursuant to the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than
the Borrower (and recognizing the Borrower's power to exercise
the legal remedies referred to in sub-Section B.2 below);
(iv) 
enable the Borrower to review Project accounts and other
documentation, as the Borrower shall reasonably request, in
respect of the Project;
(v) 
procure the goods, services, Non-consulting Services and works
for the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
this Schedule as set forth in the Procurement Plan including the
incorporation of the relevant provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines; and
-14-
(vi) 
carry out Part B and Part C of the Project in accordance with
technical, financial, environmental standard practices detailed in
the Operational Manual, and the relevant EMP and RAP.
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MHCP and MOT, shall exercise its rights and
carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreements in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Project.
(b) 
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce so as to
materially and adversely affect any of the Subsidiary Agreements or any
of their respective provisions.
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Subsidiary Agreements
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
1 .
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and shall, through MOT, cause the
Participating Cities and the Implementing Entities (pursuant to the terms of their
respective Subsidiary Agreements) to carry out their respective parts of the
Project, all in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
For the purposes of Part B and Part C of the Project, the Borrower, through
MOT, shall, and shall cause the Participating Cities and Implementing Entities
(with the participation of the corresponding Social Management Teams) to, carry
out all necessary actions to:
(a) 
reduce, to the extent possible, the amount of Affected Persons as a result
of implementing Part B and/or Part C of the Project;
(b) 
implement any of the activities under Part B and/or Part C of the Project
in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework which sets forth
the principles and procedures governing, inter alia: (i) the resettlement
and compensation of Affected Persons under Part B and/or Part C of the
Project at Full Replacement Cost; (ii) land acquisition at of Full
Replacement Cost; and (iii) the institutional, administrative, reporting
and monitoring, and communication and consultation arrangements, the
legal framework and grievance procedures applicable to said Affected
Persons; and
-15-
(c) 
maintain and implement, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, an EMF
which sets forth, inter alia: (i) environmental management principles and
procedures, communication and consultation procedures and complaint
and grievance mechanisms; (ii) specific environmental, social mitigation
measures, and (iii) criteria for the development and supervision of the
EMPs for any works financed under the Project.
2. Prior to initiating the construction of any works under Part B. 1 and/or Part C. 1
of the Project, the Borrower, through MOT, shall provide evidence to the Bank,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, demonstrating that:
(a) 
for those specific civil works impacting Affected Persons, the
resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons has taken place in
accordance with the relevant RAP, previously approved by the Bank, in
accordance with the provisions of the RPF, the Operational Manual and
this Agreement, including, inter alia: (i) the acquisition of all necessary
land, structures and other assets required for Part B and/or Part C of the
Project; (ii) the provision of the relevant compensation at Full
Replacement Cost to all Affected Persons; and (iii) administrative,
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said
plans; and
(b) 
the Participating Cities and the Implementing Entities have developed
and thereafter implemented for the purposes of each activity under Part
B and/or Part C of the Project an EMP in accordance with the provisions
of the EMF referred to in Section I.D..(c) of this Schedule; which plan
shall set forth the objectives, policies, monitoring procedures, time
schedules and other environmental and cultural property protection
provisions to inter alia: (i) mitigate potential adverse environmental
effects; (ii) mitigate potential adverse effects to natural habitats; and (iii)
mitigate adverse effects to cultural properties encountered in the carrying
out of Part B and/or Part C of the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MOT, and shall cause the Participating Cities and
the Implementing Entities to: (a) furnish to the Bank any revisions proposed to
be introduced into the RAPs or EMPs in order to achieve the objectives of their
respective parts of the Project and, thereafter, introduce such revisions into such
RAPs or EMPs, as the case may be, as shall have been agreed with the Bank;
and (b) not interfere with the compliance by the Participating Cities and the
Implementing Entities of any RAP or EMP.
4. 
When any activity under Part A.1, Part B.3, Part C.1.(a) and Part C.3 of the
Project may have implications on specific sites or when the recommendations
resulting from said activities could affect environmentally or socially sensitive
areas, the Borrower, through MOT, shall ensure, and shall cause the
-16-
Participating Cities and the Implementing Entities to ensure, that the terms of
reference for any consultancies related to studies, technical assistance or
capacity building under Part A.1, Part B.3, Part C.1.(a) and Part C.3 of the
Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to
that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the
Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance and capacity building activities.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall, and shall cause the Participating
Cities and Implementing Entities to: (i) follow up and appraise the
progress of the Project; and (ii) prepare and submit to the Bank, by not
later than March 31 and September 30 of each year of Project
Implementation, Project Reports covering all Project activities in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester. Each of
such reports shall include: (A) a detailed description of Project activities
completed during the respective six months period; and (B) a detailed
progress report, including lessons learned during Project implementation.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall, and shall cause the Participating
Cities and the Implementing Entities, to: (i) review with the Bank by not
later than May 15 and November 
15 of each year of Project
implementation, starting on November 15, 2013, until the completion of
the Project, the reports referred to in subparagraph (a) of paragraph I of
this sub-Section and carry out a semi-annual Project implementation
review to, inter alia: (A) evaluate progress in the carrying out of the
Project; (B) assess progress in the carrying out of the works detailed in
Part B and Part C of the Project, including compliance with the
corresponding 
RAPs 
and EMPs; 
(C) 
assess 
progress 
in 
the
implementation of corrective action plans, if any; and (D) identify any
current Project implementation issues and propose solutions to resolve
such issues; and (ii) after each of the preceding reviews, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said reviews and the Bank views on the matter
(if any).
-17-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall maintain a financial management system and
prepare Financial Statements in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank and the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall cause each of the Implementing Entities to
maintain a financial management system and to prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations and financial conditions of the Implementing
Entity, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to its
respective part of the Project.
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MOT, shall, and shall cause the Implementing Entities to, prepare and
furnish to the Bank, through MOT, no later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall have the Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions.
(b) 
Each audit of the Project Financial Statements shall: (i) cover the period
of a one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year
in which the Effective Date occurs; (ii) include a special opinion,
prepared under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, indicating
that the Loan amounts disbursed under the Project correspond to Eligible
Expenditures and the same have been fully documented through
supporting documentation, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The
Project audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.
(c) 
The audit of the Project Financial Statements covering the fiscal year in
which the Closing Date occurs shall include a special opinion, prepared
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, confirming that all
amounts (cumulative) disbursed under the Project correspond to Eligible
Expenditures and have been fully documented through supporting
documentation, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
-18-
Section M. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and Non-
consulting Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-consulting Services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Domestic Preference. The provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 hereto, providing for domestic
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
Non-consulting Services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional procedures set forth
in sub-paragraphs (a) (i) through (v) of this paragraph)
(b) Shopping
-19-
(c) Direct Contracting (with prior no objection from the Bank)
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding
(i) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower, through
MOT, shall prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and
furnished to the Bank, for approval, appropriate model bidding
documents. Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower, through
MOT, shall use, or cause to be used, said model bidding
documents, as approved for bidding under the Project. Any
change or departure from the model approved shall require
Bank's prior approval.
(ii) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or
Colombians, will be treated equally and, particularly, no
preference will be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for
bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing
services. There shall not be any requirement for any bidder to
show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public registry,
chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or
elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia,
unless and until such bidder is awarded the corresponding
contract.
(iii) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and
their representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish.
Date, time and place for the opening meeting shall be set forth in
the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide with, or take
place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid
submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
(iv) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract
awarded to the responsive bidder who meets appropriate
technical and financial standards of capability and whose bid has
been determined to be the lowest evaluated 
bid. Such
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the
specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the
bidding documents. If any factor additional to the amount or
amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be
applied for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid
shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents. For
-20-
purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount
or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or
amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction
of arithmetic errors.
(v) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.47 of the Procurement Guidelines
shall fully apply and, more specifically, bids shall not be
disclosed to persons other than the persons officially charged
with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they
are performing their official duties, without the corresponding
bidder's written authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be
required to provide such authorization as a condition to be
entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until
the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder.
Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those
bid portions for which confidentiality has been specifically
requested by the bidder in question.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality-and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants
(c) Consultants' Qualifications Selection
(d) Least Cost Selection
(e) Fixed Budget Selection
(f) Single Source Selection (with prior no objection from the Bank)
-21-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Procurement Plan Execution System
1. 
Without limitation to its reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MOT shall, and shall cause the Implementing Entities
to: (i) supply the SEPA with the information contained in the initial Procurement
Plan within forty-five (45) days after the Project has been approved by the Bank;
and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as required by the
Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and
shall supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
allocated 
to be financed
Cateeory 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(including of taxes)
(1) Goods, Consultants' 
15,000,000 
100%
Services, Non-consulting
Services and Operating
Costs under Part A of the
Project
-22-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(including of taxes)
(2) Goods, Works, 
26,000,000 
100%
Consultants' Services, Non-
consulting Services, Land
Acquisition and
Compensation and
Operating Costs under Part
B of the Project for the
Participating City of
Bucaramanga
(3) Goods, Works, 
103,000,000 
100%
Consultants' Services, Non-
consulting Services, Land
Acquisition and
Compensation and
Operating Costs under Part
B of the Project for the
Participating City of
Medellin
(4) Goods, Works, 
52,000,000 
100%
Consultants' Services, Non-
consulting Services, Land
acquisition and
Compensation and
Operating Costs under Part
C of the Project for the
Participating City of
Sincelejo
(5) Goods, Works, 
96,000,000 
100%
Consultants' Services, Non-
consulting Services, Land
Acquisition and
Compensation and
Operating Costs under Part
C of the Project for the
Participating City of
Valledupar
TOTAL AMOUNT 
292,000,000
-23-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee;
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after but in no case more than twelve (12) months prior to the date of this
Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures; provided that the Bank has
received the contracts on the basis of which said payments were made
and has found them to be in compliance with Sections I.C, Section I.D
and Section III of this Schedule;
(c) 
under Category (2) unless the Bank has received documentary evidence
confirming that, in manner acceptable to the Bank, a notice from the
corresponding Implementing Entity to the corresponding Fiduciary
Agent has been delivered informing the Fiduciary Agent of the existence
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (and accompanying a copy thereof)
and notifying said Fiduciary Agent that if it incurs in any of the
sanctionable offenses described in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the
Bank may sanction it in accordance with the Bank's sanctions regime;
(d) 
for payments made under Category (3) for Eligible Expenditures unless
the Bank has received documentary evidence confirming that, in manner
acceptable to the Bank, a notice from the corresponding Implementing
Entity to the corresponding Fiduciary Agent has been delivered
informing the Fiduciary Agent of the existence of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines (and accompanying a copy thereof) and notifying said
Fiduciary Agent that if it incurs in any of the sanctionable offenses
described in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the Bank may sanction it in
accordance with the Bank's sanctions regime;
(e) 
for payments made under Category (4) for Eligible Expenditures unless
the Participating City of Sincelejo has provided documentary evidence
satisfactory to the Bank of compliance with each of the following
conditions: (i) the respective Subsidiary Agreement has been updated
and signed by all the relevant parties in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) a notice from the corresponding Implementing Entity to the
corresponding Fiduciary Agent has been delivered informing the
Fiduciary Agent of the existence of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (and
accompanying a copy thereof) and notifying said Fiduciary Agent that if
-24-
it incurs in any of the sanctionable offenses described in the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, the Bank may sanction it in accordance with the
Bank's sanctions regime; (iii) the Implementing Entity: (A) has been
duly established according to the Borrower's commercial enterprise
laws; (B) has been staffed with financial management staff with
functions, responsibilities, qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank to manage its financial areas including operational and system
processes involved in the implementation of the Project (as a minimum
system modules of budget, accounting and treasury) and internal control
and supervision functions of the Fiduciary Agent; and (C) has been
staffed with a core team with functions, responsibilities, qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank, all throughout Project
implementation, in the following areas: environment, resettlement and
procurement and ensure that said core team is supported by any other
professional and administrative staff, as appropriate; (iv) the EMP and
the RAP, if required, for the Participating City of Sincelejo have been
prepared, consulted, disclosed, and approved by the Bank; and (v) the
procurement plan for the Participating City of Sincelejo has been
submitted to, and approved by, the Bank; and
(f) 
for payments made under Category (5) for Eligible Expenditures unless
the Participating City of Valledupar has provided documentary evidence
satisfactory to the Bank of compliance with each of the following
conditions: (i) the respective Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into
and signed by all the relevant parties in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) a notice from the corresponding Implementing Entity to the
corresponding Fiduciary Agent has been delivered informing the
Fiduciary Agent of the existence of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (and
accompanying a copy thereof) and notifying said Fiduciary Agent that if
it incurs in any of the sanctionable offenses described in the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, the Bank may sanction it in accordance with the
Bank's sanctions regime; (iii) the Implementing Entity: (A) has been
duly established according to the Borrower's commercial enterprise
laws, (B) has been staffed with financial management staff with
functions, responsibilities, qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank to manage its financial areas including operational and system
processes involved in the implementation of the Project (as a minimum
system modules of budget, accounting and treasury) and internal control
and supervision functions of the Fiduciary Agent; and (C) has been
staffed with a core team with functions, responsibilities, qualifications
and experience 
acceptable to the Bank, all throughout Project
implementation, in the following areas: environment, resettlement and
procurement and ensure that said core team is supported by any other
professional and administrative staff, as appropriate; (vi) the EMP and
the RAP, if required, for the Participating City of Valledupar have been
-25-
prepared, consulted, disclosed, and approved by the Bank; and (v) the
Procurement Plan for the Participating City of Valledupar has been
submitted to, and approved by, the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2016.
-26-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February
15, 2026.
-27-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of an involuntary taking of
land under the Project, had or would have their: (a) standard of living adversely
affected; or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive assets
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work
or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently as
per the Bank's policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); and "Affected
Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"CONPES" means a document issued by DNP (as hereinafter defined),
authorizing a Participating City (as hereinafter defined) to participate in the
National Urban Transport Program (as hereinafter defined) which details the
technical, physical, operational and financial aspects of said city's infrastructure
investments.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.
7. 
"Contribution" means the amount transferred by the Borrower, through MHCP,
to any of the Implementing Entities, through a Fiduciary Trust Arrangement to
cover the Borrower's contributions for the financing of Eligible Expenditures
incurred by any of the Implementing Entities in connection with the carrying out
of their respective works detailed in Part B and Part C of the Project. A
Contribution by itself does not qualify as an Eligible Expenditure.
-28-
8. 
"DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, the Borrower's Planning
Department, and its successor or successors thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
9. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means (as a supplement to the general definition in item
36 of the Appendix to the General Conditions) any of the expenditures incurred
by the Implementing Entities in connection with the Borrower's Contributions
made (through MHCP) to the Implementing Entities for Part B and Part C of the
Project, if such expenditures correspond to (a) contracts for goods, works,
consultants' services and Non-consulting Services procured by the Implementing
Entity pursuant to the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
all for the exclusive purposes of their respective Parts of the Project, and
documented through statements of expenditures in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank; and/or (b) the amounts required to carry out Land Acquisition and
Compensation in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. A
Contribution by itself does not qualify as an Eligible Expenditure.
10. 
"Environmental Management Framework" and the acronym "EMF" mean
Lineamientos Ambientales para el Disehfo, Construcci6n y Seguimiento de
Proyectos de Sistemas de Transporte Masivo en Colombia, the guidelines issued
by the Borrower's Ministry of the Transport dated March, 2004, updated on
December 29, 2010, acceptable to the Bank, and published on February 14, 2011.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" and the acronym "EMP" mean Plan de
Manejo Ambiental, the plan of action, acceptable to the Bank, related to the
carrying out of any of the activities under Part B and/or Part C of the Project
adopted by the respective Participating City, and to be implemented by the
respective Implementing Entity referred to in Section I.D.2. (b) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
12. 
"Fiduciary Agent" means any of the financial institutions operating as trustees
(agentesfinancieros) under a Fiduciary Trust Arrangement; collectively referred
to as "Fiduciary Agents".
13. 
"Fiduciary Trust Arrangement" means Encargo Fiduciario, the fiduciary trust
arrangement established by any of the Implementing Entities (as hereinafter
defined) with the previous approval of the Borrower, through MOT, and the
respective Participating City for the purposes of receiving Loan proceeds from
the Borrower, through the MHCP, for the carrying out of the pertinent activities
under Part B and Part C of the Project, referred to in Section I.B..(a)(i) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"Full Replacement Cost" means the methodology to be used by the Borrower or
an Implementing Entity for the valuation of lost assets by Affected Persons
(when such loss is attributable directly to the execution of Part B and/or Part C of
the Project) and for which the compensation shall be provided in an amount
-29-
sufficient to replace such assets, all in accordance with the terms of the RAPs and
in compliance with the Bank's policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010.
16. 
"Implementing Entity" means an Ente Gestor, a corporate transportation entity
established or to be established in each Participating City (as hereinafter defined)
pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's industrial and commercial enterprise
laws, which is responsible as a local agency for the implementation of the
activities of Part B or Part C of the Project, including the following entities: (a)
Metrolinea (Bucaramanga); (b) Metroplus S.A. (Medellin); (c) Metrosabanas
S.A.S. (Sincelejo); and (d) SIVA S.A.S. (Valledupar) or any other successor or
successors thereto acceptable to the Bank; collectively referred to as
"Implementing Entities".
17. 
"Land Acquisition and Compensation" means any payment made by the
Borrower to the corresponding Implementing Entity for: (i) land acquisition
under Part B.2. (a) and Part C.2 (a) of the Project; and (ii) compensation to
Affected Persons under Part B.2 (b) and Part C.2 (b) of the Project.
18. 
"Large Participating Cities" means the Borrower's cities of Bucaramanga and
Medellin or any other successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank; and
"Large Participating City" means any of the "Large Participating Cities."
19. 
"Management Resolution" means Resoluci6n de Gerencia, the directive issued
by the governing body (Junta Directiva) of the corresponding Implementing
Entity approving a RAP and setting forth guidelines and procedures for the
calculation and payment of compensation to Affected Persons under the
respective RAP.
20. 
"Medium Participating Cities" means the Borrower's cities of Sincelejo and
Valledupar or any successor or successors thereto, acceptable to the Bank; and
"Medium Participating City" means any of the "Medium Participating Cities".
21. 
"MHCP" means Ministerio de Hacienda y Cridito Piblico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor or successors thereto,
acceptable to the Bank.
22. 
"MOT" means Ministerio de Transporte, the Borrower's Ministry of Transport
or any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.
23. 
"National Urban Transport Program" and the acronym "NUTP" mean the
Borrower's program aimed at improving long-term sustainability, efficiency and
quality of urban transport, through the provision of joint financing (between the
-30-
national and municipal levels of government) of infrastructure investments in the
Participating Cities and the City of Bogotd, through the provision of annual
budgetary transfers (vigencias futuras) established pursuant to the provisions of
CONPES No. 3167 dated May 23, 2002, CONPES No. 3260 dated December 15,
2003 and CONPES No. 3368 dated March 27, 2006, as the same have been
amended to the date of this Agreement.
24. 
"Non-consulting Services" means the expenditures incurred by the Borrower,
through MOT, and/or the Implementing Entities to finance the provision of
services under the Project, for which the physical aspects of activity predominate
and will be bid and contracted on the basis of performance of measurable
physical outputs, including but not limited to, the fees of the Fiduciary Agents.
25. 
"NUTP Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No. 86 dated December 29,
1989 as amended by the Borrower's Law No. 310 dated August 6, 1996 and
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No 42853 dated August 12, 1996,
providing for the joint financing (between MHCP and the Participating Cities) of
infrastructure works required under the NUTP, through the provision of annual
budgetary transfers (vigenciasfuturas).
26. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of the
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia, the cost of training events,
hiring Fiduciary Agents, office equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and
maintenance, communication and insurance, office administration, travels, per
diem and supervision of the Project.
27. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual acceptable to the Bank, referred to in
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Participating City" means any of the Borrower's municipal governments
established and operating in any of the Large Participating Cities or Medium
Participating Cities selected according to eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual to participate in the Project; collectively referred to as
"Participating Cities".
29. 
"PCU" means the Borrower's Project Coordination Unit referred in Section I.A. 1
(b)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as set forth in the Operational Manual, or
any successor or successors thereto satisfactory the Bank.
30. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006 and May 2010.
31. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project
referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24
-31-
of the Consultant Guidelines, dated March 30, 2011 as amended from time to
time, acceptable to the Bank.
32. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and the acronym "RAP" mean Plan de Adquisici6n
Predial y Reasentamiento, any of the resettlement action plans satisfactory to the
Bank, adopted by an Implementing Entity (through a Management Resolution)
pursuant to the provisions of Section I.D.2. (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
for the carrying out of Part B. I and/or Part C. 1 of the Project.
33. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and the acronym "RPF" mean Marco de
Politica de Reasentamiento, the Borrower's policy framework for the carrying
out of Part B and/or Part C of the Project dated February 23, 2004, updated on
November 30, 2011, acceptable to the Bank, and published on February 10,
2011, acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
34. 
"SEPA" means Sistema de Ejecucidn de Planes de Adquisiciones, the Bank web-
based regional procurement management system developed to create and approve
procurement plans online and to promote transparency, accountability and
compliance with Bank policies in Bank funded projects.
35. 
"Social Management Team" means the team of specialists established in each
Implementing Entity which shall be responsible for the management of social
issues raised in the context of Part B and/or Part C of the Project that may trigger
any safeguards provisions under Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
(collectively referred to as "Social Management Teams").
36. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means Convenio de Cofinancidn, any of the tripartite
agreements entered into between (a) the Borrower, represented by MHCP and
MOT, (b) a Participating City represented by the corresponding municipal
authority (Mayor), and (c) the respective Implementing Entity, represented by its
legally authorized official as set forth in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; collectively referred to as "Subsidiary Agreements"; and this term
also includes those Subsidiary Agreements updated pursuant to Section 5.01 (a)
of this Agreement.
-32-
