~DOqWi 
s 
e
The World Bank 
a 
et Nw. 1 
(202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Washin to ,C 
433 
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
.
.
Cable Address: INDEVAS
March 20, 2013
H. E. Amadou Kane
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Dakar
Republic of Senegal
Re: Grant No. TFO 13474 - State and Peace-Building Fund Grant for the
Community Peace Building Initiatives in Casamance
Additional Instructions: Disbursement Letter
Excellency:
I refer to the Letter Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Development
Association ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by various donors under the
State-and Peace-Building Fund, and Republic of Senegal (the "Recipient") for the above-referenced
project, dated February 8, 2013. The Agreement provides that the World Bank may issue additional
instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Grant TF013474 ("Grant"). 
This letter
("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the additional instructions.
This Disbursement Letter is the First Restatement of the Disbursement Letter dated February 8,
2013 for the above referenced project restating Section II (vi) to express the Ceiling of Designated
account in CFAF. All other provisions of the Disbursement Letter dated February 8, 2013 shall remain in
force and effect.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter. 
The
manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Grant is specified below.
Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and subsections in the
Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the capitalized terms used have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
1. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used under the
Grant:
* 
Reimbursement
* 
Direct Payment
* 
Advance
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4 months after
the Closing Date specified in the Grant Agreement. Any changes to this date will be notified by the World
Bank.
1
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Withdrawal Condition(s) in Section
3.02 of the Grant Agreement.
II. Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1).
A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the World Bank at the address
indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to submit
Applications:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Attention: Ms Vera Songwe, Country Director for Senegal
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2). Please provide completed applications for withdrawal, together with
supporting documents, through the World Bank's Client Connection, web-based portal, following the
instructions for electronic delivery. In the case the recipient does not have internet access, the World Bank
may permit the delivery of applications for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, in
accordance with subsection 3.3, to the following address:
The World Bank,
Loan Department,
Kenya Re Towers, 10th Floor,
Upper Hill, off Ragati Road,
Nairobi,
Kenya. Attention: Loan Department
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The option to deliver Applications to the World Bank by
electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing, pursuant to the terms of
subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign and deliver Applications and to
receive secure identification devices ("Tokens") from the World Bank for the purpose of delivering such
Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such officials designated by the Recipient have registered as
users of Client Connection. If the World Bank agrees, the World Bank will provide the Recipient with
Tokens for the designated officials. Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications
electronically 
by 
completing 
Form 
2380, 
which 
is 
accessible 
through 
Client Connection
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of preparing
and delivering Applications in paper form. The World Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole
discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of Applications by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating officials to accept
Tokens and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient confirms through the
authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure
Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and
Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens") provided in Attachment [3]; and
(b) to deliver the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to each such official and to cause such official
to abide by those terms and conditions.
2
(v) Minimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5). 
The Minimum Value of Applications for
Reimbursements and Direct Payments is USD 200,000 or its equivalent.
(vi) Advance (sections 5 and 6).
* 
Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3). Segregated Account.
* 
Currency of Designated Account (subsection 5.4): CFAF
* 
Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection 5.5).
ECOBANK
* 
Ceiling (subsection 6.1): CFAF 180,000,000
III. Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). 
Supporting documentation should be provided with each
application for withdrawal as set out below:
* 
For requests for Reimbursement:
o 
Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 4)
o 
Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices) for
payments against contracts valued at USD 200,000 or its equivalent or more;
o 
List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior review, in
the form attached (Attachment 5)
* 
For reporting eligible expenditures paid from the Designated Account:
o 
Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 4)
o 
Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices) for
payments against contracts valued at USD 200,000 or its equivalent or more;
o 
List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior review, in
the form attached (Attachment 5)
o 
Designated Account reconciliation statement (Attachment 6) with bank statement.
* 
For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies of
receipts, supplier invoices
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account (subsection 6.3): Quarterly
3
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the Disbursement
Handbook available on the World Bank's public website at https://www.worldbank.ore and its secure
website "Client Connection" at https://clientconnection.worldbank.org. 
Print copies are available upon
request.
If you have not already done so, the World Bank recommends that you register as a user of the
Client Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). 
From this website you will be able
to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Grant, and retrieve related policy,
financial, and procurement information. 
All Recipient officials authorized to sign and deliver
Applications by electronic means are required to register with Client Connection before electronic
delivery can be affected. For more information about the website and registration arrangements, please
contact the World Bank by email at <clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact LOA-TF by sending an email to
loa-tfkworldbank.org and using the trust fund number as a reference.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By _ 
_ 
t
Vidya Narasimhan
Finance Officer, Loan Department
Attachments
1. As per Original Disbursement Letter dated February 8,2013
4
