OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8233-CN
Loan Agreement
(Green Energy for Low-Carbon City in Shanghai Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
)tI 
/4- 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8233-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement, dated 9- 
c / 4 
, 2013, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS:
(A) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide assistance towards the financing
of the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project"); and
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank,
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)
("GEF Grant Agreement"), the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an
amount 
of 
four 
million 
three 
hundred 
and 
forty 
five 
thousand
Dollars ($4,345,000) ("Grant") to assist in financing Part 1 of the Project; and
NOW the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing Part 2 of the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or un-withdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause Part 2 of the Project to be carried out by the Participating Financial
Intermediaries in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
-2-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
China
Facsimile:
86-10-6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Beijing, China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: t',
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR/
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
le-1-1s 
/Col
Title: 
A
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to pilot green-energy schemes and scale up low-carbon
investments in buildings in Shanghai Municipality, with a focus on Changning District, and the
higher-level global environment objective of the Project is to support Shanghai Municipality's
low-carbon city development by promoting green-energy schemes, with a focus on Changning
District.
The Project consists of the following parts:
1 .
Technical Assistance and Incremental Support for Near Zero-Emission Buildings
(a) 
Green-Energy Buildings
(i) 
Provision of technical assistance to and capacity building of Changning
District for the 
green-energy 
retrofitting 
of buildings, that is,
implementation of energy-efficiency and renewable-energy technologies
in existing buildings.
(ii) 
Demonstration of at least one (1) near zero-emission building in
Changning District.
(b) 
Low-Carbon Energy Supply
Provision of technical assistance to Changning District for the implementation of
distributed generation from renewable energy and natural gas and a pilot carbon
emissions cap and trade scheme.
(c) 
Green Mobility
Provision of technical assistance to Changning District for the design and development of
implementation plans for the improvement of local public transport systems to discourage
the use of private vehicles.
(d) 
Capacity Building and Project Management Support
(i) 
Carrying out of due diligence reviews of Part 2 of the Project, and
promotion of low-carbon investments.
(ii) 
Capacity 
building of key stakeholders for the development and
implementation of low-carbon initiatives.
(iii) 
Project management, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation and
donor coordination.
-5-
2. 
Low-Carbon Investments
(a) 
Green-Energy Retrofitting of Buildings
Implementation of low-carbon technologies in existing buildings.
(b) 
New Green-Energy Buildings
Implementation of low-carbon technologies above municipal building code requirements
in new buildings.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
On-lending
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to Shanghai Municipality, and shall cause Shanghai Municipality to make
such proceeds available to Changuing District, both under terms and conditions approved
by the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the principal amount of the Loan made available shall be: (i) denominated and
repayable in Dollars; (ii) charged a front-end fee at the rate set forth in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement; (iii) charged interest on the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate set forth in Section 2.04
of this Agreement; and (iv) repayable over the period set forth in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement; and
(b) 
Changning District shall make such proceeds available to the Participating
Financial Intermediaries under the same terms and conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the on-lending arrangements referred to in
the preceding paragraph in such a manner as to protect its interests and those of the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, or permit to be
assigned, amended, abrogated or waived, such rights.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; and
(b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate,
or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Operational Manual and those of
this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
-7-
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social
Management Framework and any Environmental Management Plans, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or
any provision thereof.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that no land
acquisition or Involuntary Resettlement is carried out under the Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Participating Financial Intermediaries to monitor and
evaluate the progress of their Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports
for their Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08
of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Participating Financial Intermediaries to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the
Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester,
interim unaudited financial reports for their Respective Part of the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section 1H. 
Procurement
A. 
General
Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
-8-
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Section III of the Procurement Guidelines.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services
Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices.
Goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial
Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational
Manual.
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
All contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower,may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-9-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Low-Carbon Investment 
40,000,000 
100%
Subproject Loans made by 
of amounts disbursed
Bank of Shanghai
(2) Low-Carbon Investment 
40,000,000 
100%
Subproject Loans made by 
of amounts disbursed
Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank
(3) Low-Carbon Investment 
19,750,000 
100%
Subproject Loans made by 
of amounts disbursed
either or both of the
Participating Financial
Intermediaries
(4) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07 (c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after November 1, 2012 for
Eligible Expenditures 
under Categories (1) and (2), 
provided that the
requirements set forth in Annex B to the Schedule to the Project Agreement have
been met;
(b) 
for payments under Categories (1) and (3), unless a Subsidiary Agreement has
been executed on behalf of Changning District and Bank of Shanghai in
- 10-
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A. 1 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement;
(c) 
for payments under Categories (2) and (3), unless a Subsidiary Agreement has
been executed on behalf of Changning District and Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A. I of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement; or
(d) 
for payments under Category (3), unless the allocation of the amount of the Loan
to either Category (1) or (2) has been fully disbursed.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on March 1, 2025.
- 12-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank of Shanghai Company Limited" or "Bank of Shanghai" means the Borrower's
partly-owned enterprise established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Company
Law of 1996 and Bank of Shanghai's Business Registration No. 310000400138557 and
its charter dated June 3, 2010, or a successor thereto.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Changning District" means the Borrower's administrative subdivision of such name
under Shanghai Municipality (as hereinafter defined), or a successor thereto.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers",
dated January 2011.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the Project Implementing
Entities (as hereinafter defined)' framework, part of the Operational Manual (as
hereinafter defined) and agreed with the Bank, setting forth mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to
eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts of activities to be implemented
under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive
impacts, and guidelines and procedures for the screening of Low-Carbon Investment
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), as the same may be modified from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes, appendices,
or schedules to such framework.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means a Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan
Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined)'s plan, prepared pursuant to the Environmental and
Social Management Framework, agreed with the Bank, and setting forth mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be implemented
under a Low-Carbon Investment Subproject, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes, appendices,
or schedules to such plan.
8. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
- 13 -
9. 
'"Involuntary 
Resettlement" means the following caused on account of Project
implementation: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected person.
10. 
"Low-Carbon Investment Subproject" means a specific low-carbon investment activity
carried out under Part 2 of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a
Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the
criteria set forth in Part B of Annex B to the Schedule to the Project Agreement and in
further detail in the Operational Manual.
11. 
"Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
to a Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined) out of
the proceeds of the Loan to finance a Low-Carbon Investment Subproject pursuant to a
Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined).
12. 
"Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan Agreement" means an agreement, referred to
in Part C of Annex B to the Schedule to the Project Agreement, between either of the
Participating Financial Intermediaries and a Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan
Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions governing a Low-Carbon Investment
Subproject Loan.
13. 
"Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan Beneficiary" means an individual or an entity
meeting specific criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and which is the beneficiary
of a Low-Carbon Investment Subproject Loan and party to a Low-Carbon Investment
Subproject Loan Agreement.
14. 
"Operational Manual" means the Participating Financial Intermediaries (as hereinafter
defined)' manual, dated September 2012 and agreed with the Bank, setting forth
implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation, financial
management, 
disbursement, 
and 
procurement 
arrangements 
for 
purposes 
of
implementation of Part 2 of the Project, including criteria, procedures, and terms for
Low-Carbon Investment Subprojects, and including the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
manual.
15. 
"Participating Financial Intermediaries" means, collectively, Bank of Shanghai and
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (as hereinafter defined).
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 2011.
- 14 -
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means, individually: (i) Changning District; (ii) Bank of
Shanghai Company Limited; and (iii) Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Company
Limited; and "Project Implementing Entities" means all of said entities.
18. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means: (a) for Changning District, the
Borrower's Constitution of 2004; (b) for Bank of Shanghai, the Borrower's Company
Law of 1996 and Bank of Shanghai's Business Registration No. 310000400138557 and
its charter dated June 3, 2010; (c) for Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, the
Borrower's Company Law of 1996 and Shanghai Pudong Development Bank's Business
Registration No. 310000000013047 and its charter dated February 12, 2011; and such
term includes any other legal instruments governing the organization, reorganization,
restructuring, and operations of the Project Implementing Entities as of the date of this
Agreement.
19. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means the following: (i) for Changning District, Part 1 of
the Project; and (ii) for the Participating Financial Intermediaries, collectively, Part 2 of
the Project.
20. 
"Shanghai Municipality" means the Borrower's administrative subdivision of such name
in the east of its territory, or a successor thereto.
21. 
"Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Company Limited" or "Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank" means the Borrower's partly-owned enterprise established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Company Law of 1996 and Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank's Business Registration No. 310000000013047 and its charter dated
February 12, 2011, or a successor thereto.
22. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means an agreement referred to in Section L.A of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement pursuant to which Changning District shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Participating Financial Intermediaries.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modification to the General Conditions is as follows, namely, that Section 2.05 (a) is
modified to read as follows (emphasis added):
"(a) 
the payment is for the reasonable cost of low-carbon investment subproject
loans required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and procured, all in
accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;"
-15 -
