OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8296-SC
Loan Agreement
(Second Sustainability and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
) 
o4 
-Y- 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8296-SC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
0O 
, 2013, entered into between
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1,01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million four hundred thousand
Euros (6 5,400,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.08 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.06 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during
each two consecutive Interest Periods shall be converted from the initial Variable
Rate to a Fixed Rate for-the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
-3-
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shalt make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's Minister responsible for
finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
P.O. Box 313
Liberty House
Victoria, Mah6
Seychelles
Facsimile:
248-422 58 93
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at WO 
A, 
* C * as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
By
AuthorizedRepresentative
Name:'? 
L
Title:tjtgVL 
fl 'AX-C1"'
,INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR EVELOPMENT
RECONSTRUCTION AND
By
Author 
d Representative
Name: 14Qd
Title: 
QDUOA4L1 
DIA
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section .
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
To improve private sector business environment:
(a) The Recipient has submitted to its National Assembly, for second reading, a
revision of the Recipient's Company Act (1972), which supports enhancements to
ease starting a business.
(b) The Recipient has submitted to its National Assembly, for second reading, a
unified Insolvency Bill, which establishes a modem framework to save viable
businesses and enable non-viable businesses to exit the market quickly.
(c) The Recipient's Cabinet has approved a housing subsidy policy that better targets
low-income households in need of assistance.
To improve transparency in key economic sectors:
(d) The Recipient has submitted to its National Assembly a revision of the
Recipient's Petroleum Income Tax Act (2008) to establish an improved legal and
fiscal framework for awarding and administering petroleum agreements,
including safety, environmental, and operational standards and fiscal terms.
(e) The Recipient's Cabinet has approved a policy for bi-annual disclosure by the
Seychelles Fishing Authority of the contents of all existing fishing agreements,
fishing and aquaculture licenses, and authorizations issued (foreign and
nationals) which have been in force the previous twelve (12) months (but without
infringing any confidentiality clause by disclosing), and for mandatory disclosure
of all new agreements.
To improve expenditure efficiency:
(f) The Recipient's Cabinet has approved a policy framework for performance
program based-budgeting and agreed on its progressive 
implementation
involving first as pilot in selected ministries for the 2014 budget and, if
successful, its extension to all ministries for the 2015 budget.
(g) (i) The Recipient's National Assembly has enacted the Public Enterprise
Monitoring Commission Act, 2013 (Act no. 3 of 2013); and (ii) each public
enterprise has submitted to the Public Enterprises Monitoring Commission a
-7-
statement of corporate intent and at least one monthly statements of financial and
operational performance, including details of debt performance.
To improve targeting, automation and monitoring and evaluation in the social protection
systeth:
(h) (i) The Recipient's Cabinet has approved a policy memorandum to include
mental health related disabilities into the Social Security Act (2010); and (ii) the
Board of the Agency for Social Protection has approved revised regulations
regarding the certification process for disability and sickness benefits including
roles and responsibilities of the Medical Board. The revised regulations includes:
(a) written procedures for the Medical Board's assessments, consistent with the
WHO international classification of functioning; (b) tightened monitoring and
control (including sanctions) of both medical doctors certifying sick leave as well
as workers on sick leave; and (c) approval of sick leave over three months by the
Medical Board.
(i) The Recipient's Cabinet has approved a policy to consolidate Home Carers and
Family Support Programs into one means-tested program, with well-defined
eligibility rules.
(j) The Recipient's Minister of Finance, Trade and Investment has revised the
Seychelles Pension Fund Regulations (January 07, 2013) to link yearly increase
in pension benefits to Consumer Price Index and to limit the increase to a yearly
maximum of 5 percent.
To ensure cost recovery and long-term financial sustainability of utilities:
(k) The Recipient's Cabinet has approved: (i) an adjustment mechanism for
electricity tariffs effective from July 2013; and (ii) a policy memorandum on
rebalancing tariffs from July 2013.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
-8-
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Tranche Allocated
(expressed In Euros)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
5,386,500
(2) Front-end Fee 
13,500
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,400,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account ("Deposit Account") designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that, upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Audit
Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank;
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and
their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.
-9-
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2014.
-10-
SCHEDULE 2
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2024 
3.23%
through August 15, 2038
On February 15, 2039 
3.10%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal. Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 12 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Agency for Social Protection" means the agency established under the
Borrower's Agency for Social Protection Act 2011/25.
2. 
"Cabinet" means the Borrower's cabinet of ministers.
3. 
"Consumer Price Index" means the consumer price index published by the
Recipient's National Bureau of Statistics in its Monthly Statistical Bulletin on
Consumer Price Index and posted on its website at www.nsb.gov.sc.
4. 
"Deposit Account" means the account designated by the Borrower in accordance
with Section IL.D of Schedule I to this Agreement.
5. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and concentrates)
- 13 -
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
7. 
"Medical Board" means the board established by the Recipient's Social Security
Act (2010) dated July 2, 2010.
8. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated July 4, 2013 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
9. 
"Public Enterprise Monitoring Commission" means the Recipient's monitoring
commission established in accordance with the Public Enterprise (Monitoring)
Act 2013 (Act no. 3 of 2013).
10. 
"Seychelles Fishing Authority" means the parastatal organization established by
the Borrower's Seychelles Fishing Authority (Establishment) Act 1984/10.
11. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
12. 
"WHO" means the World Health Organization.
-14-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
- 15 -
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
