OFICtAL
DOCUMEWTS
LOAN NUMBER 8227-CN
Loan Agreement
(Fujian Meizhou Bay Navigation Improvement Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8227-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated A 
'AF .
,P 
P 2013, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency, (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate*based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.1 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MC1)
-3-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Au 
Representative
Name:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP 
NT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity of the Main Navigation Channel in
Meizhou Bay and enhance the management capacity of Meizhou Bay Harbor Administration
Bureau.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improvement of Main Navigation Channel
1. 
Improvement of the 52 km long main navigation channel in Meizhou Bay to a 300,000
DWT standard to allow for unidirectional tide-independent navigation of Q-MAX LNG
ships, as well as unidirectional tide-dependent navigation of bulk cargo ships up to
400,000 DWT.
Part B: Capacity Building to Enhance Management Capacity
1. 
Carrying out of two technical studies regarding: (i) the strengthening of comprehensive
competitiveness of Meizhou Bay Harbor; and (ii) establishment of modem logistics
system for Meizhou Bay Harbor.
2. 
Carrying out of a series of training programs designed to build the MBHAB's
management capacity so as to improve the operational efficiency and competitiveness of
Meizhou Bay ports.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the entire proceeds of the Loan to the Project
Implementing Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the
following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be recovered
over a period of nineteen (19) years, inclusive of a grace period of ten (10) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity: (a) to manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, (b) to take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and
approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project, to enabie thet Boirower and the Project Implementing
Entity to comply with its undertakings under this Agreement and the Project Agreement;
and (c) to maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project
and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as
may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section HI. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in
Annex to the Schedule to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover the
-6-
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days
after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank. shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made- applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-7-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, non-consulting 
48,875,000 
60%
services and goods under Part
A of the Project
(2) Consultants' services, 
1,000,000 
100%
Training, Study Tours, and
Workshops under Part B of
the Proiect
(3) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar Premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2018.
-8-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2023 
5.56%
through April 15, 2031
On October 15, 2031 
5.48%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be deteimined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the dato of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
-9-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of his Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-10-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
4. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
5. 
"DWT" means deadweight tonnage.
6. 
"Environmental Management Plan" and the acronym "EMP" means the Environmental
Management Plan dated October 15, 2012, duly adopted by the Project Implemening
Entity and to be implemented by it for the purpose of carrying out the Project; which sets
out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as
said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank;
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to such plan.
7. 
"FPTD" means Fujian Provincial Transport Department, or any successor thereto.
8. 
"FPMO" means Fujiain Project Management Office, established by the ProjLct
Implementing Entity, and to be maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 2 of
Part A of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
10. 
"Main Navigation Channel" means the main navigation channel at Meizhou Bay area in
the Borrower's Province of Fujian.
-11-
11. 
"Meizhou Bay Harbor Administration Bureau" and the acronym "MBHAB" mean the
Meizhou Bay Harbor Administration Bureau, established in 2009 through a decision of
the Office of the Institution Establishment Committee of the Fujian Provincial Party
Committee, issued on June 4, 2009, and to be responsible for planning, construction,
maintenance and management of the ports and navigation infrastructure within Meizhou
Bay area.
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 10, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Fujian, or any
successor thereto.
15. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or the acronym "RAPs" means collectively (i) the overall
Resettlement Action Plan dated September 30, 2012; and (ii) the specific Resettlement
Action Plan for Putou Backfill area, dated September 30, 2012, both prepared by the
Project Implementing Entity for purposes of carrying out the Project, which plans set out,
inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for
the Project and reiated facilities; (b) actions and measures for the payment of
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (c) the
criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions and measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from the
implementation of activities in locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; and
(d) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the
same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
such terms include all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans.
16. 
"Training, Study Tours, and Workshops" means for purposes of Section IV of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, the reasonable cost, based on annual work plans and budgets approved
by the Bank, of travel, lodging and per diem for trainees attending training, study tours,
workshops and seminars and the cost of delivering training, such as services of trainers,
rental of training space and training equipment, translation of training materials and other
costs, directly related to such training, study tours and workshops accuptable to the
Bank.
-12-
