OFFICIAL 
L 
(
DOCUMENTS
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address: INDEVAS
July 29 ,2013
His Excellency
Mr. Firmino da Silveira Soares Filho
Mayor
Prefeitura Municipal de Teresina
Praga Marechal Deodoro da Fonseca, 860
Paldcio da Cidade, T6rreo - Centro
64000-160 - Teresina, PI
Brazil
Re: 
Loan No. 7523-BR (Teresina Enhancing Municipal Governance
and Quality of Life Project - Programa Lagoas do Norte)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
I refer to the Loan Agreement entered into between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Municipality of Teresina (the Borrower)
dated July 24, 2008 (the Loan Agreement) for the above-captioned Project. Capitalized terms
used in this letter (Amendment Letter) and not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Loan Agreement.
I am pleased to inform you that pursuant to the communication from the Secretaria do
Tesouro Nacional to the Bank dated March 1, 2013, the Ministrio da Fazenda has agreed to
COFIEX's recommendation to have the Loan Agreement amended to extend the closing date to
December 31, 2014, and partially restructure the Project. The Bank hereby agrees to amend the
Loan Agreement to extend the closing date and partially restructure the Project. Accordingly:
1. 
Part 1 of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement is amended to delete subparagraphs (iii) and
(v) and revise subparagraph (iv), all to read as follows:
Part 1: Municipal Management Modernization, City Development, and Project
Management
Strengthening the Borrower's management and technical capacity, through the
provision of technical assistance and equipment for, inter alia:
(i) consolidating and improving the efficiency of the Borrower's financial and budget
management and planning capacity;
(ii) modernizing the water supply and sanitation service delivery to comply with the
WSS Law, including, inter alia: (a) the preparation and dissemination of a
municipal integrated water supply and sanitation plan; (b) the creation and
strengthening of a municipal water supply and sanitation regulating body; and (c)
the formalization of the water supply and sanitation service delivery mechanism for
the Borrower's territory consistent with the WSS Law;
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
(iii) deleted and left intentionally blank;
(iv) modernizing the Borrower's urban and environmental management, including the
preparation of the Borrower's municipal urban and transport management master
plans and the elaboration of new or updated laws to accompany the finalization of
these plans;
(v) deleted and left intentionally blank, and
(vi) carrying out Project management, monitoring and evaluation, to support the PMU
to carry out the procurement, financial management, environmental, social and
other requirements of the Project.
2. 
Section IV.B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. The Bank will only grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it
agrees with such extension.
If you agree with the foregoing amendment, please countersign and date the two copies
of this Amendment Letter in the space provided below, and return one countersigned copy to us.
Upon the Bank's receipt of the countersigned copy of this Amendment Letter, this Amendment
Letter will become effective as of the date of your countersignature.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
~ 
/
-)5eborah L. Wetzel
Director
Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
MUN 
IPALITY OF TERESINA
By
Firmino da Silveira Soares Filho
Authorized Representative
Date: 
O 
s vw-o 
, 2013
