DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8259-lD
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Third Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income
Communities (Community Based Water Supply/PAMSIMAS I) Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
^1we 
(t 
, 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated IJlf 
It 
, 2013, between 
REPUBLIC 
OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities
related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower
and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety nine million nine hundred thousand United
States Dollars (USS99,900,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60
days after the Effective Date.
3 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are Januaryl5 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MoPW, MoH and MoHA in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Directorate General of Debt Management
Gedung Frans Seda
J1. DR. Wahidin Raya No. I
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
62-21-381-2859
Jakarta
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
5 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Robert Pakpahan
Title: Expert Staff of Minister of
Finance on State Revenue
With Full Mandate as Director
General of Debt Management
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
_ga
Authorized Representative
Name: 
-- 
PAW 
KJ&&ErILE
Title: 
couvm1
2 ( 
P1 P-EC-TVR, 
Wot/Sic1
6 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the number of under-served and low income
rural and peri-urban populations accessing improved and sustained water and sanitation services
and practicing improved hygiene behaviors as part of the Borrower's efforts to achieve WSS-
MDG Targets through programmatic mainstreaming and scaling-up of a nationwide community-
driven approach.
The Project consists of the Original Project as modified below:
Part A: Community Empowerment and Local Institutional Development
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training for both governmental and non-
governmental organizations and low income communities to support the preparation and
implementation of Community Action Plans (CAPs), focusing on informed choice,
design and costs of community and school water supply and peri-urban sanitation
services, community and school hygiene behavior change activities, school sanitation
facilities and post-construction management and sustainability.
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to strengthen inter-agency
cooperation at the Province- and District-level and to develop the institutional capacity of
the units, teams and related personnel involved in the implementation of the Project,
including development and revision of guidelines and manuals, and training materials to
ensure compliance with the relevant rules and procedures.
3. 
Provision of training, through the recruitment of a Training and Development Service
(TDS) team at the national level, to provide support to PPMUs and DPMUs, including
strategic planning, preparation and quality assurance for training and capacity building
activities.
4. 
Provision of training, through the recruitment of Community Facilitation Teams, to
facilitate community empowerment and institution building at the Village-level.
5. 
Implementation of a program of activities designed to support capacity building and
advocacy activities for governments and civil society to improve overall WSS delivery,
encourage increase or reallocations in overall local government budgets in favor of
community-driven development WSS efforts, and promote post-construction innovations
to enhance the sustainability of WSS services.
7 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
Part B: Improving Hygiene and Sanitation Behavior and Services
I. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to support implementation of a
phased program of community behavior change, consisting of the promotion of the
community-led total sanitation approach to safe excreta management, hand-washing and
other locally relevant environmental sanitation practices, including water storing and
handling, food hygiene, solid waste and wastewater management, and water quality
surveillance.
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training, and carrying out of studies, to
support a sanitation and hygiene marketing program designed to generate consumer
demand for improved sanitation, facilitate the ability of local markets to respond to this
demand, and promote improved hygiene behavior.
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to support school-based hygiene
promotion training and facilitation, and facilitate workshops designed to incorporate and
integrate school-based hygiene promotion programs into routine curricula and health
education programs.
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to strengthen the capacity of the
units responsible for environmental health and hygiene promotion in Participating
Provinces and Participating Districts to monitor progress in meeting their WSS-MDG
Targets, assess performance of their sanitation and hygiene programs and evaluate their
impact on hygiene behavior.
Part C: Water Supply and Public Sanitation Infrastructure
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to support: (a) water supply systems
for new villages; (b) the scaling up and expansion of existing village water supply
systems; and (c) optimization of existing underperforming village water supply systems,
through the design, construction and commissioning and operation of water supply
infrastructure at the community-level, based on a menu of technical options, including:
rapid technical assessments and community WSS situation analysis to determine water
demand and system options; informed water system technology choice; technical surveys
and development of the detailed engineering designs; construction, supervision and
quality control; operations, maintenance and repair training.
2. 
Provision of grants to support activities under CAPs.
Part D: District and Village Incentives
1. 
Provision of DVI Grants to Participating Districts that meet or exceed predetermined
project performance criteria based on the Participating District's achievement of WSS
coverage, contribution to CAP Grants, and management information system performance,
to support activities under CAPs.
8 of 26 
LOAN NJMBER 8259-ID
2. 
Provision of DVI Grants to Participating Villages that meet or exceed predetermined
project performance criteria based on the Participating Village's achievement of
component specific objectives of hygiene, community mobilization and contribution, and
WSS coverage to support complementary activities in view of the scaling up and
expansion of existing community WSS services.
Part E: Implementation Support and Project Management
1 .
Provision of technical advisory services and training, through the recruitment of Central
Management Advisory Consultants (CMAC), to provide support, for the benefit of
CPMU, in terms of overall Project management, monitoring of implementation and
outcomes, expansion of the national WSS program, and technical and financial reporting,
as well as in the fields of sustainable WSS, hygiene promotion, capacity building,
institutional strengthening, social and environmental safeguards and community
empowerment.
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training, through the recruitment of Regional
Oversight Management Services (ROMS) teams, to provide support, for the benefit of
PPMUs and DPMUs, in terms of day-to-day Project management, technical matters,
implementation of community-driven processes, institutional capacity building, social
inclusion and environmental safeguards, monitoring of implementation and sustainability
of outcomes, and technical and financial reporting at the Province-, District- and Village-
level.
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training, through the recruitment of
independent Project evaluation consultants, to evaluate Project performance, having
regard to the performance indicators referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Section II.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to support preparations for a sector-
wide program for the WSS sector.
9 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain a Project Coordination and Steering Committee (PCSC), chaired by
Bappenas, and whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be
agreeable to the Borrower and the Bank, responsible for providing overall
guidance and strategic direction in the implementation of the Project;
(b) 
maintain a PCSC secretariat/technical team, chaired by Bappenas, and whose
mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank, to serve as the secretariat and provide technical support to the
PCSC;
(c) 
maintain a Central Project Management Unit (CPMU), chaired by a representative
of DGHS, and including representatives of MoH and MoHA, responsible for
overall 
coordination, 
day-to-day 
management, 
budgeting, 
financial
administration, monitoring and reporting, of the Project at the central level;
(d) 
ensure that:
(i) 
the CPMU shall be provided with adequate funds and other resources, and
supported by suitably qualified and experienced technical, financial and
administrative personnel in adequate numbers as needed to accomplish the
objectives of the Project; and
(ii) 
the CMAC shall provide support in terms of overall Project management
support, monitoring of implementation, and technical and financial
reporting, as well as oversight and technical guidance to consultants
engaged at the level of Participating Provinces and Participating Districts;
and
(e) 
establish and maintain, a Training and Development Service (TDS) team at the
national level, whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, responsible for providing support to
PPMUs and DPMUs, including strategic planning, preparation and quality
assurance for training and capacity building activities.
10 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
there shall be established and/or maintained:
(i) 
in each Participating Province:
(A) 
a Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC), chaired by the
Bappeda, whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall
be in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, responsible
for coordination and monitoring of the Project at the Province-
level; and
(B) 
a Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU), headed by an
official of the Provincial Public Works Office, responsible for
overall coordination and management of the Project at the
Province-level;
(ii) 
in each Participating District:
(A) 
a District Coordinating Committee (DCC), 
chaired 
by the
Bappeda, whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall
be in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, responsible
for coordination and monitoring of the Project at the District-level;
and
(B) 
a District Project Management Unit (DPMU), headed by an official
of the District Public Works Office, responsible for overall
coordination and management of the Project at the District-level;
(iii) 
in each Participating Village, a Village Implementation Team (VIT)
responsible for the design and implementation of the Project at the
Village-level;
(b) 
each PPMU and DPMU shall be provided with adequate funds and other
resources, and supported by suitably qualified and experienced personnel in
adequate numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project,
including:
(i) 
ROMS responsible for overall coordination, day-to-day management,
budgeting, financial administration, monitoring and reporting, of the
Project at the Province- and District-level;
(ii) 
Community Facilitation Teams with expertise in technical, health
promotion and community development skills to assist in the development
and strengthening of equitable 
community 
institutions to ensure
sustainable improvements in WSS facilities and related behaviors; and
11 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
(iii) 
Stakeholders Committees at the District-level, which shall be established
in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, and which shall be in
charge of evaluating CAPs.
B. 
Implementation Obligations
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain a Project Operations Manual, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank,
giving details of guidelines and procedures agreed with the Bank for the
implementation, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project,
including: (i) implementation arrangements, along with the criteria, and terms and
conditions, for the selection of Participating Provinces and Participating Districts;
(ii) details of a village implementation plan describing the community-driven
development 
process; 
(iii) 
reporting, 
and monitoring 
and evaluation,
requirements, and financial management and audit procedures as set forth in
Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iv) procurement procedures as set
forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as well as standard
procurement documentation; (v) details of the Environmental and Social
Safeguards Policy Framework; (vi) the criteria, for the review and selection of
Sub-project proposals, as well as the additional terms and conditions governing
Grants as set forth in Part C of this Section; (vii) guidelines and procedures
governing voluntary sales transactions and voluntary land donations under Sub-
projects; and (viii) the Anti-Corruption Action Plan; and
(b) 
implement the Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not waive,
amend or abrogate any provision thereof
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prior to the beginning of each new Fiscal Year, provide to the
Bank, for review and comments, a proposed annual work program for that Fiscal Year,
consisting of detailed work plans and budget for that Fiscal Year for the CPMU and
Participating Provinces and Participating Districts; and (b) proceed thereafter to
implement such annual work program and budget, taking into consideration any
comments that may have been made thereon by the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that both the English and Indonesian versions of the Anti-
Corruption Action Plan, as updated from time to time with a written agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank, as well as the annual work program referred to in paragraph
2 of this Section, as approved by the Bank, are made publicly available until the
completion of the Project, both in hard copies to interested members of the public and
through an official website designed under the Project.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies related to
studies, technical assistance and/or capacity building under this Agreement shall be
satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof.
12 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
C. 
Terms and Conditions Governing Grants
For purposes of providing Grants under the Project, the Borrower shall apply the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to finance Grants in accordance with the guidelines,
procedures and criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual, including but without
being limited to the following terms and conditions:
1. 
No Grant shall be made to finance expenditures involving or likely to involve: (a) the
manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides
and herbicides), arms or drugs; (b) the production, processing, handling, storage or sale
of tobacco or products containing tobacco; (c) activities within a nature reserve or any
other ar\ea designated by the Borrower for the management and/or the protection of
biodiversity, except with the prior written approval of the Borrower's agency responsible
for the management and/or protection of such area; (d) over-exploitation of water
resources and/or contamination of domestic water supplies; or (e) the provision of goods,
works or services, directly or through intermediaries, by suppliers or contractors, as the
case may be, who have been declared ineligible to participate in the procurement of any
Bank-financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of time, as a result of a
decision of the Sanctions Committee, but only to the extent that such sanctions remains
valid and applicable, according to the terms of the decision.
2. 
The proceeds of the Loan allocated to Grants, along with the overall number of Grants
made or to be made pursuant to this Agreement, shall be adjusted from time to time,
taking into account the rate of compliance by the Borrower and individual Beneficiaries
with their respective obligations under this Agreement and the relevant Sub-project Grant
Agreements, including, in the case of the Borrower, its obligation to provide counterpart
funds under the Project.
3. 
No proposal for a Sub-project involving Indigenous Peoples shall be considered for
approval under the Project, unless: (a) the proposal has benefited from a process of free,
prior and informed consultation involving the affected Indigenous Peoples; (b) the free,
prior and informed consultation process has resulted in broad community support for the
Sub-project among the affected Indigenous Peoples; and (c) the Sub-project includes
measures designed to avoid potentially adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples or, where
avoidance is not feasible, to minimize, mitigate, or compensate for such effects in
accordance with the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework.
4. 
CAP Grants shall be provided to Beneficiaries to support the physical construction and
implementation of WSS schemes selected from a menu of technical options, and
community and school water supply, sanitation and hygiene improvements, as the case
may be.
5. 
DVI Grants shall be provided to Participating Districts and Participating Villages that
meet or exceed predetermined project p6rformance criteria pursuant to a prior agreement
between the Participating Districts or Participating Villages, as the case may be, and
DGHS; provided, however that: (a) the performance criteria shall have been identified
13 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
and publicized in advance.in all Participating Districts or Participating Villages, as the
case may be; (b) DVI Grants shall be provided on a competitive basis, and shall be
limited to not more than a predetermined number of Participating Districts and
Participating Villages to be specified in the Project Operations Manual; and (c) the
proceeds of DVI Grants shall be used as incentives for the scaling-up and sustainability
of the community-based rural water supply and sanitation program.
6. 
For purposes of every Sub-project, the Beneficiary shall ensure that: (a) the Sub-project
shall be implemented as far as reasonably practicable on publicly-owned land, or on land
provided voluntarily by the community or individual members of the community; (b) the
Sub-project shall not involve any compulsory acquisition of land, forcible eviction or
involuntary resettlement of persons or restriction of access to designated parks or
protected areas; (c) where unavoidable, land acquisition shall be kept to the strict
minimum, and shall be undertaken exclusively on the basis of mutually-agreed voluntary
sales transactions or voluntary land donations, and in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the Project Operations Manual, including establishment of
appropriate grievance redress mechanisms to address potential disputes arising out of
such sales or donations; and (d) the terms of reference for any consultancies related to
studies, technical assistance and/or capacity building under this Agreement shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank following their review thereof
7. 
For purposes of every Grant, a Sub-project Grant Agreement shall be signed with the
Beneficiary, setting forth the respective obligations of the parties thereunder, including:
(a) details of agreed disbursement schedules; (b) procurement procedures consistent with
the provisions of Section Ill of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (c) provisions for audits of
the Grants; (d) the respective amounts of counterpart contributions to be provided by the
Beneficiary and the Participating District; (e) the right of the Borrower and the Bank to
visit any facilities pertaining to the Sub-project and to carry out physical inspections of
the progress of the Sub-project; (f) an undertaking on the part of the Beneficiary to carry
out its Sub-project in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(g) the right of the Borrower and the Bank to require audits of the Beneficiary's records
and accounts; (h) the right of the Borrower to suspend, terminate or accelerate or seek
refund of the Grant; and (i) an undertaking on the part of the Beneficiary to execute the
Grant with due diligence and efficiency and, upon its completion, to ensure the continued
achievement of the objectives of the Grant.
8. 
No Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of a Grant unless a Sub-
project Grant Agreement has been concluded to this effect on terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
14 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b)
of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of the period covered by such report.
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the
following:
Performance Indicators 
Target
Number of additional people with sustainable access to improved 
5.6 million
water facilities, differentiated by socioeconomic status
Number of additional people with sustainable access to improved 
4 million
sanitation facilities, differentiated by socioeconomic status
Number of villages developing CAPs 
5,000 villages
Number of communities adopting hand washing practices 
60%
% of target communities free of open defecation 
50%
% of Districts preparing capacity building plans, to support the 
80%
adoption and mainstreaming of the Project's approach, and
progress towards achieving its objectives
% of Districts that has an increased budget towards meeting the 
80%
requirements to maintain existing WSS systems and achievement
of MDG Targets
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than June 30, 2016.
15 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and tb be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
16 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the
additional provisions set out in the Annex to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct
Contracting; and (d) Community Participation procedures which have been found
acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Quality-based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; and (e) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
17 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting services, 
31,460,000 
80% of non-consulting
workshops and training under 
services;
Parts A and E of the Project 
100% of goods, workshops
and training
(2) Grants under Part C of the 
65,090,000 
100% of Grant amount
Project 
disbursed
(3) Consultants' services 
3,350,000 
80%
TOTAL AMOUNT 
99,900,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
18 of 26 
LOAN NUMB3ER 8259-ID
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the
Pelelangan Umum 
(Public 
Tendering) 
and 
Pemilihan Langsung 
/ 
Pelelangan
Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods as set forth in the Borrower's Presidential Regulation
No. 54/2010 as amended through July 31, 2012, including amendments set forth in Presidential
Regulation No. 70/2012, with the modifications set out below in order to ensure economy,
efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung
/ Pelelangan Sederhana method shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds
specified in said Regulation. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and
these modifications, the latter shall govern.
1. 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud
and corruption as defined in paragraph 1.16(a) of said Guidelines and the contract
provisions set out in paragraph 1.16(e) of said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required,
a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given
reasonable time for registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint
venture or sub-contract part of the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as
a condition for submitting bids or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be
made available, by mail or in person, to all international bidders who are willing to pay
the required fee.
3. 
No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. 
Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21)
days from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding
documents, whichever is later, to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10)
days under the Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5. 
Bids invited under the Pelelangan Utnum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope
and evaluated using post-qualification.
6. 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's
estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
19 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
7. 
Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or guarantee
from a reputable bank or other reputable financial institution and shall without exception
follow the form provided for this purpose in the bidding documents.
8. 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
9. 
Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate in bidding
only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law, and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-borrower.
20 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
July 15, 2020 
4.47
January 15, 2021 
4.58
July 15, 2021 
4.70
January 15, 2022 
4.81
July 15, 2022 
4.93
January 15, 2023 
5.06
July 15, 2023 
5.18
January 15, 2024 
5.31
July 15, 2024 
5.45
January 15, 2025 
5.58
July 15, 2025 
5.72
January 15, 2026 
5.86
July 15, 2026 
6.01
January 15, 2027 
6.16
July 15, 2027 
6.32
January 15, 2028 
6.47
July 15, 2028 
6.64
January 15, 2029 
6.75
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
21 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
22 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
I. 
"Anti-Corruption Action Plan" means a stand-alone chapter of the Project Operations
Manual exclusively dedicated to the Borrower's anti-corruption action plan, giving
details of a program of actions, measures and policies designed to reduce or eliminate
fraud and corruption in all its forms under the Project, including enhanced information
disclosure provisions, civil society oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with
the risks associated with collusion, forgery and fraud, a complaint handling mechanism,
and an appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bappeda" 
means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah or the Regional
Development Planning Agency of a Province or a District, as the case may be, or any
successor thereto.
4. 
"Bappenas" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional or the National
Development Planning Board of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Beneficiary" means a Participating District or Participating Village, as represented by a
Village Implementation Team, which is the recipient of a Grant and party to a Sub-
project Grant Agreement; and "Beneficiaries" means more than one Beneficiary.
6. 
"CAP" or "Community Action Plan" means a community action plan referred to under
Part A. 1 of the Project and "CAPs" means more than one CAP.
7. 
"CAP Grant" means a grant to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and designed
to finance a Sub-project under Part C.2 of the Project.
8. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
9. 
"CMAC" means the Central Management Advisory Consultants referred to under Part
E.1 of the Project.
10. 
"Community Facilitation Team" means a Community Facilitation Team referred to under
paragraph 2(b)(ii) of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"Consultant 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
23 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
12. 
"CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 1(c) of
Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"DCC" means a District Coordinating Committee referred to in paragraph 2(a)(ii)(A) of
Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any successor thereof
14. 
"DGHS" means the Directorate General of Human Settlements of MoPW, or any
successor thereto.
15. 
"District" means an administrative subdivision of a Province.
16. 
"DPMU" means a District Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 2(a)(ii)(B)
of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"DVI Grant" means a District Village Incentive grant, a grant to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and designed to finance a Sub-project under Parts D.1 and D.2 of
the Project; and "DVI Grants" means more than one DVI Grant.
18. 
"Environmental and Social Safeguards Policy Framework" means the Environmental and
Social Safeguards Policy Framework issued by the Borrower on November 29, 2012,
giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the
benefits accruing under the Project, avoid or mitigate any adverse impacts arising
thereunder, or, if such adverse impacts cannot be avoided altogether, reduce such impacts
to acceptable levels, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the
Bank.
19. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing January I and ending
December 31.
20. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
21. 
"Grant" means a CAP Grant or DVI Grant, or both.
22. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct social
and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development
process affected by the Project or any part thereof as follows: (a) masyarakat adat
(customary law communities) based on lineage or locality and bound by customary law
with characteristics including: (i) self identification as a distinct indigenous cultural
group; (ii) collective attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in the
territories; and (iii) customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions; and (b)
Komunitas Adat Terpencil (KAT) (Isolated and Vulnerable communities), a category of
customary law communities designated by the Borrower that live in isolated areas with
characteristics including: (i) collective attachment to ancestral territories and to the
natural resources in the territories; (ii) customary cultural, economic, social, or political
institutions; (iii) an indigenous language; (iv) having a subsistence economy, (v) using
24 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
simple tools and technology, (vi) having a high dependence on the environment and local
natural resources, and (vii) having restricted access to social, economic, and political
services.
23. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means the updated Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework issued by the Borrower on November 29, 2012, giving details of a
program of actions, measures and policies designed to facilitate a process of free, prior
and 
informed 
consultation 
involving 
Indigenous 
Peoples 
in the design 
and
implementation of every Sub-project, and to ensure that such Indigenous Peoples derive
benefits from the Sub-project which are socially, economically and culturally appropriate,
and gender and inter-generationally inclusive.
24. 
"MDG" means Millenium Development Goals, a set of time-bound and measurable goals
and targets for combating poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy, environmental degradation
and discrimination against women, which was formally approved by the international
community at the United Nations Millennium Summit in September 2000.
25. 
"MoH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower or any successor thereto.
26. 
"MoHA" means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower or any successor thereto.
27. 
"MoPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower or any successor thereto.
28. 
"Original Project" means the project financed by a credit provided by the International
Development Association in the amount of SDR94,100,000 to the Borrower pursuant to
the Original Financing Agreement.
29. 
"Original Financing Agreement" means the agreement (Credit No. 4204), dated
December 27, 2007, between the Borrower and the International Development
Association for the Project, as such agreement has been and may be amended from time
to time.
30. 
"Participating District" means any District in a Participating Province which is selected to
participate in the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations
Manual.
31. 
"Participating Province" means any Province which is selected to participate in the
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations manual.
32. 
"Participating Village" means any Village in a Participating District which is selected to
participate in the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations
Manual.
33. 
"PCC" means a Provincial Coordinating Committee referred to in paragraph 2(a)(i)(A)
of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereof
25 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
34. 
"PCSC" means the Project Coordination and Steering Committee referred to in paragraph
1(a) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
35. 
"PPMU" means Provincial Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 2(a)(i)(B)
of Section I.A of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
36. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
37. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March
22, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
38. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the updated Project Operations Manual, dated March
22, 2013, referred to in paragraph 1(a) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank, and such term
includes any schedules to the Project Operations Manual.
39. 
"Province" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower's territory.
40. 
"ROMS" means Regional Oversight Management Services referred to under paragraph
2(b)(i) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
41. 
"Sanctions Committee" means the committee established by the President of the Bank to
review allegations of corruption under projects financed by the Bank, and to recommend
appropriate sanctions to the President of the Bank, or any successor thereto.
42. 
"Stakeholders Committee" means the stakeholders committee referred to under paragraph
2(b)(iii) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Stakeholders Committees"
means more than one Stakeholders Committee.
43. 
"Sub-project" means a WSS scheme, a school sanitation and hygiene improvement
program, or complementary activities under Part C of the Project, to be financed in whole
or in part out of the proceeds of a Grant.
44. 
"Sub-project Grant Agreement" means the Sub-project Grant Agreement referred to in
paragraph 7 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
45. 
"TDS" means Training and Development Service referred to under Part A.3 of this
Project.
46. 
"Village" means an administrative subdivision of a District.
26 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8259-ID
47. 
"VIT" means a Village Implementation Team referred to in paragraph 2(a)(iii) of Section
l.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
48. 
"WSS" means water supply and sanitation.
49. 
"WSS-MDGs Targets" means the MDG targets in terms of WSS.
