OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8308-MA
Loan Agreement
(Additional Loan for the Office National de I'Electricit6 et de I'Eau Potable (ONEE)
Support Project (formerly, Office National de l'Electricitk (ONE) Support Project))
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DE L'EAU POTABLE
Dated 
GD e- 
C 
, 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8308-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
CL 
R 
& 
, 2013, 
entered into
between 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DE
L'EAU POTABLE ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing additional financing for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Euros (E30,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such
non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions.
-3 -
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Director General.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Office National de l'Electricitd et de l'Eau Potable
Avenue Mohamed Belhassan El Ouazzani
10220 Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Facsimile:
212-537-75-91-06
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
, 
(k0 )K as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Z"* -
Authorized Representat- e
Namne: 
VIC V"
Title: (%W k
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'EL 
ICITE ET
DE L'EAU POTABLE
By
uthori 
Representative
Name: NU. Vc'&
Title: (V
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to increase the efficiency and
reliability of electricity supply to electricity consumers.
The Project consists of the Original Project.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Value Enhancement Performance Unit of the Borrower shall be responsible
for the overall coordination of Project implementation. To that end, the Borrower shall
maintain its Value Enhancement Performance Unit with qualified staff and adequate
resources.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) take all necessary measures to implement the Project in
accordance with the ESIAF (including each EMP that pertains to the applicable
transmission line), the RPF and the RAPs, and shall not amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the ESIAF, the EMPs, the RPF and
the RAPs, without prior approval of the Bank; and (ii) ensure that adequate
information on the implementation of the ESIAF, the EMPs, the RPF and the
RAPs is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this
Schedule.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures identified and described in the
ESIAF, the EMPs and the RPF are taken in a timely manner.
3. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
prior to commencing civil works for any activity under Part I of the
Project and when required under the ESIAF and the EMPs, carry out
specific public consultation in form and in substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b) 
ensure the lay-out, construction and management of the relevant
transmission line are consistent with the recommendations of the ESIAF
and thereafter carry out the applicable EMP.
4. 
Prior to commencement of civil works for any activity under Part I of the Project
involving involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of land, the
-7-
Borrower shall prepare and implement appropriate RAP or RAPs, as the case
may be, for compensation, or resettlement, in accordance with the RPF, such
RAP or RAPs to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. In addition, the
Borrower shall have its general financial statements (the "General Financial
Statements") prepared in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, and audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of the Financial Statements and the General
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements and the audited General Financial Statements
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of such period.
-8-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Method of Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding.
C. 
Method of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
E. 
Cross-Debarment
A firm or an individual or the Borrower that has been found by an IFI to have
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use
of the proceeds of financing provided by such IFI, may be declared ineligible by the
Bank on the terms set by the IFI to:
I. 
be awarded a Bank-financed contract;
2. 
be a nominated sub-contractor, consultant, manufacturer or supplier, or service
provider of an otherwise eligible firm being awarded a Bank-financed contract;
-9-
3. 
benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise; and
4. 
otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the Project or any
other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in EUR) 
financed
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
works 
and 
29,925,000 
100%
consultants' 
services
for the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
75,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 
2.03 
of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(2) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30,000,000
- 10-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed E6,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after September 1, 2013,
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings: Debt: Equity Ratio
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take, in
consultation with the Guarantor, all actions necessary to ensure that its
Cumulative Debt to equity shall be lower than 4.5 by closing of each
fiscal year.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section:
(i) 
The term "debt" means: (A) any long term indebtedness of the
Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred; or (B) any short term
indebtedness of the Borrower, namely all accounts payable and
other indebtedness maturing by its terms less than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) 
The term "Cumulative Debt" means the sum of: (A) any long
term indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
and (B) any short term indebtedness of the Borrower, namely all
accounts payable and other indebtedness maturing by its terms
less than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(iii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into.
(iv) 
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up
capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
- 11 -
(v) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate,
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
- 12-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2017
through January 15, 2033 
2.94%
On July 15, 2033 
2.98%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
- 13 -
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payinent Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 14 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
"Agreement for the Mutual Enforcement of Debarment Decisions" means the
agreement dated April 9, 2010, entered into among the African Development
Bank Group, the 
Asian Development 
Bank, the 
European 
Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank Group,
and the World Bank Group, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006.
5. 
"EMP" means an Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the Bank and
adopted by the Original Borrower on March 18, 2008, describing the mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures to be implemented in order to eliminate,
offset or reduce any adverse environmental and social aspects in respect of the
activities under Part I of the Original Project.
6. 
"ESIAF" means the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Framework,
satisfactory to the Bank and adopted by the Original Borrower on March 18,
2008, setting forth procedures for the environmental and social screening of the
activities under Part I of the Original Project, including the mitigating measures
prescribed in the EMPs as well as the specific public consultation measures to be
carried out prior to commencing civil works.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"Guarantor" means the Kingdom of Morocco.
9. 
"International Financial Institution" or "IFI" means the African Development
Bank Group, the Asian Development 
Bank, the 
European 
Bank 
for
Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank Group
and any other institution that joins the Agreement for the Mutual Enforcement of
Debarment Decisions in accordance with its terms.
- 15-
10. 
"Original Borrower" means Office National de l'Electricitd (ONE).
I1. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Office National de
l'Electricit6 et de l'Eau Potable (ONEE) Project (formerly, Office National de
l'Electricit6 (ONE) Support Project) between the Bank and the Original
Borrower , dated June 23, 2008 (Loan No. 7564-MA), as amended pursuant to:
(i) the amendment letter dated June 7, 2010; and (ii) the Loan Assumption and
Amendment 
Agreement 
between 
the 
Bank 
and 
the 
Borrower 
dated
September 18, 2013.
12. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006.
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated October 21, 2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Area" means the Guarantor's provinces of Casablanca, Settat, El jadida,
Safi, Chichaoua, Marrakech, Essaouira, Taroudant, Agadir and Beni Mellal, or
such other provinces as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
16. 
"RAP" means a Resettlement Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the details for land acquisition,
resettlement and rehabilitation in respect of the activities under Part I of the
Project, as applicable.
17. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework satisfactory to the Bank and
adopted by the Original Borrower on February 2, 2008, outlining the modalities
for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation in respect of the activities
under Part I of the Project, as well as details for the preparation of the RAPs.
18. 
"World Bank Group" is comprised of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, the International Development Association, the International
Finance Corporation, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the
International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes.
