OFFICIAL
90CUMENTS1
LOAN NUMBER 8263-GE
Loan Agreement
(Fourth East West Highway Improvement Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
C 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8263-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated, 
2013, between GEORGIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I-GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II-LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty eight million United States dollars
(US$38,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"),to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule,2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04, 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Ratefor the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance 
with 
the 
relevant 
provisions 
of Article 
IV 
of the 
General
Conditions.Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth inSchedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE HI-PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Projectin accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV-REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the Borrower
shall have failed to notify, and provide adequate information to the Bank before entering
into a concession agreement for the operation and maintenance of the East-West
Highway financed under the Project or the Bank shall have raised objections to the
Borrower entering into such agreement.
2
ARTICLE V-EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower has submitted to the Bank the Operations Manual in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995-32-2261461
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
3
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By
Authoried Representative
Name: 
___(ar 
dl- r
Title: ff/
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
'l ( y 
k- e,
Title: 
/- 
P 
c 
>r
4
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objectives of the Projectare to: (i) contribute to the gradual reduction of road
transport costs and to improve road safety along the section upgraded under the Project; and (ii)
to strengthen the capacity of the RD and the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure
to plan and manage the road network and improve road traffic safety.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improvement and asset Management of the East-West Highway
1. 
Upgrading of about 12 km of the existing 2-lane E60 East-West Highway through the
construction of a 2-lane dual carriageway from Agara to Zemo Osiauri including two
interchanges, two bridges, several overpasses and underpasses and approximately 3.4 km
of riverbank protection.
2. 
Maintenance of the E60 2-lane dual carriageway between Natakhtari and Ruisi.
3. 
Improving road safety and access roads on the existing East-West Highway between
Natakhtari and Ruisi and along the existing E60 alignment between Ruisi and
Chumateleti.
4. 
Carrying out environmental improvement measures along the completed sections of the
E60 highway between Natakhtari and Ruisi to address adverse environmental impacts of
construction activities during the upgrading of such sections.
5. 
Conducting construction supervision and quality assurance services including a technical
audit for all civil works financed under the Project.
Part B: Institutional strengthening
1. 
Institutional strengthening of the MRDI through:
(a) 
the review and updating of the road sector strategy including an analysis of the
social and gender impact of the proposed strategy;
(b) 
the provision of technical assistance to the MRDI for capacity building in road
safety policy issues and management and coordination of road safety activities including:
(i) the assessment of the existing national traffic safety strategy and action plan for 2010-
2013; and (ii) the development of a new strategy and plan for 2014-2017;
(c) 
the improvement of the operating environment for the local construction industry
and implementation of measures to promote improved professional practices within the
industry including training needs assessment and manpower development;
5
(d) 
the improvement of manpower planning and development in the MRDI through:
(i) carrying out a training needs assessment and preparing a manpower development plan;
(ii) the development and implementation of a training plan; and (iii) conducting regular
learning events to promote knowledge of best practices in road sector policy and
management and promotion of their adoption.
2. 
Institutional strengthening of the RD through:
(a) 
the improvement of the organizational efficiency of RD's internal business
processes, design standards, multiannual planning for works, and development and
implementation of a communication strategy;
(b) 
the improvement of manpower planning and development in RD through: (i)
carrying out a training needs assessment and preparing a manpower development plan;
(ii) the development and implementation of a training plan with particular focus on
FIDIC Rules; and (iii) conducting regular learning events to promote knowledge of best
practices in road sector policy and management and promotion of their adoption;
(c) 
the development of a strategic roadmap for the development and implementation
of intelligent transport systems (ITS) along the East-WestHighway, from Tbilisi to
Turkish border.
Part C: Preparation of designs and supporting studies for-future projects for the development of
the East-West Highway
1. 
Preparation of a study to define the scope of the maintenance interventions along some
upgraded sections of the E60 2-lane dual carriageway including the review and update of
current maintenance guidelines being used by the RD.
2. 
Preparation of road safety improvement studies and designs to identify needed road
safety interventions and access improvements to be implemented along the existing road
between Natakhtari and Chuniateleti which includes: (i) road safety audits along the said
road section; and (ii) the detailed design of the proposed road safety measures.
3. 
Updating the feasibility studies and preparing preliminary engineering designs of the new
Rikoti Tunnel and the 60km of highway between Chumateleti and Argveta, including an
environmental and social impact assessment and an environmental management plan
therefor.
4. 
Preparing a detailed design of the new Rikotitunnel, preparation of bidding documents
and independent review of all technical and safety provisions, including the design of
related access roads to nearby population centers.
Part D: Project Management
Institutional support to the RD and the TRRC related to Project management,
financial audits and Project monitoring and evaluation through the provision of goods and
consultants' services.
6
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
ImpIementatlon Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out: (a) Parts A, B.2, C and D of the Project through the RD
and (b) Part B. 1 of the Project through the MRDI with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility,
environmental practices and in accordance with the Operations Manual and shall provide
the RD, MRDI and TRRC with the resources and staff necessary for implementing the
Project. The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operations Manual
or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank. 
The RD shall be
responsible for the overall coordination and oversight of the Project implementation.
2. 
By not later than one month as of the Effective Date, the MRDI, the RD and TRRC shall
enter into a Project Implementation Agreement for the purposes of setting forth the
obligations of each party in relation to the Project implementation in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Project
Implementation Agreement, the MRD1 and RD shall be assisted in Project-related
financial management and disbursement by the TRRC. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain
the TRRC with terms of reference, resources and staff necessary for proper Project
implementation and satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) require the TRRC to carry out the
financial management and disbursement for the Project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Agreement.
3. 
During Project implementation, the Borrower shall through the MRDI cause the RD to
maintain the FPU with terms of reference, resources and staff necessary for proper
Project implementation and satisfactory to the Bank to assist the RD and MRDI in
Project-related procurement, monitoring and evaluation and Project reporting.
4. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of internationally recognized standards for
construction, planning and design of highways as well as the national standards,
acceptable to the Bank, in the design, construction and maintenance of road works under
the Project.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available for the
Project in the Borrower's annual budget for the duration of the Project.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
7
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the EIA, EMP, RPF and RAP. The Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the EIA, EMP, RPF and/or RAP or any provision thereof, without the
prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall, prior to the commencement of works under the Project, ensure that:
(a) the provisions of the EMP are adequately included in the proposed contract(s) for said
works; and (b) the owners and users of the land where said works are to be implemented
are fully compensated in accordance with the provisions of the RAP.
3. 
Prior to the commencement of small scale works for any proposed site to improve road
safety and access roads on the existing E60 highway between Natakhtari and Chumeteleti
and to carry out environmental improvements along completed sections of the E60
highway between Natakhtari and Ruisi, the Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the related
Site-specific EMPs are prepared;(b) the proposed design and sites for said works
incorporate the provisions of Site-specific EMPs; (c) the provisions of said Site-specific
EMPs are adequately included in the proposed contract for said works; and (d) such
works are carried out in accordance with the respective Site-specific EMPs. The Bank
shall conduct a post-review of the documentation related to the design, contracts and Site-
specific EMPs for selected works and field visits of such selected works as part of regular
Project supervision.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Mid-term Review
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, shall include the reporting on the status of the
implementation of the RAP and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out, not later than December 15, 2015, and in conjunction with
the Bank, a mid-term review of the Project, covering the progress achieved to date in the
implementation of the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and shall
furnish to the Bank, not later thanNovember 15, 2015, a report integrating: (a) the results
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to this Agreement, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
of such report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective of the Project; (b) the
results of the review of the overall progress in the development and management of the
East West corridor; and (c) the draft policy proposals for the road sectorparticularly its
8
management and financing based on the findings of the various relevant studies carried
out under the Project.
4. 
The Borrower shall through MRDI and promptly following the mid-term review, prepare
an action program, acceptable to the Bank, for the further implementation of the Project
having due regard to the findings of the mid-term review, and thereafter implement such
program with due diligence and efficiency.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the TRRC to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the TRRC to have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financedout of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections H and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
InternationalCompetitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
.
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
9
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in
below:
(i) "Open competitive procedures" (i.e. "public tender") shall be the default
rule. A single envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of goods,
works, or non-consulting services.
(ii) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the
preparation and submission of bids. 
Advertisements published in foreign
language newspapers shall be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum in
number of days for bids preparation and submission.
(iii) Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. If registration is
required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders for reasons unrelated to their
capacity and resources to successfully perform the contract (e.g., mandatory
membership in professional organizations, classification, etc.). 
Post-
qualification shall be conducted to verify that the bidder has the capability and
resources to successfully perform the contract.
(iv) Government-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to participate
in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of
the Government. Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same
bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.
(v) Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank's sample bidding
documents, including pre-qualification documents, for the procurement of
goods, works, or non-consulting services, and such documents shall contain
draft contract and conditions of contract including clauses on fraud and
corruption, audit and publication of award, all acceptable to the Bank.
(vi) Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids. Bidder's representatives shall be permitted to attend the
bid opening.
(vii) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than
thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested without the prior
approval of the Bank.
10
Procurement Method
(viii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria expressed in
monetary terms as defined in the bidding documents, no merit point system
and no domestic preference shall be used in the evaluation of bids. Contracts
shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated
substantially responsive bid and no negotiations shall be carried out prior to
contract award.
(ix) Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18)
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.
(x) No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is higher than
the estimated budget for that procurement. All bids shall not be rejected and
new bids solicited without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below; consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single-Source Selection of consulting firms
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
11
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non- 
37,905,000 
80%
consulting 
services,
consultants' 
services,
Training 
and 
Incremental
Operating 
Costs 
for 
the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
95,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in 
accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) 
Interest 
Rate 
Capor 
0 
Amount due pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
12
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be madefor
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2018.
13
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2023
through July 15, 2037 
3.33%
On January 15, 2038 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
14
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
15
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
datedJanuary 2011.
4. 
"EIA" means the Borrower's environmental impact assessment report, acceptable to the
Bank consisting of interalia: (i) a description of the site where construction activities are
to be carried out under Part A of the Project and the justification for said activities; (ii)
the actual or potential environmental impact of the construction activities referred to
under sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) an environmental management plan setting forth
adequate mitigating measures and systems required to monitor the implementation of the
construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above and to ensure
compliance of such activities with said measures with a view to limiting any actual and
potential adverse environmental impact.
5. 
"EMP" means the Borrower's environmental management plan, acceptable to the Bank,
dated March 27, 2013 setting forth the environmental mitigation, monitoring and
institutional measures to be undertaken during the implementation of the Project, and
satisfactory to the Bank.
6. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Association
for the Project, of the same date as thisAgreement; as such agreement may be amended
from time to time. 
"Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
7. 
"FPU" means the Foreign Projects Unit established within the RD and referred to under
Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"General 
Conditions" means the 
"International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
9. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable and necessary incremental expenses
incurred by the Borrower with respect to Project implementation, management and
monitoring, including the costs of staff salaries (excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil
service staff), communication, editing, printing and publication, translation, vehicle
operation and maintenance, bank charges, local travel costs and field trip expenses, office
rentals, utilities, equipment and supplies.
16
10. 
"MRDI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure and
any successor thereto.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" datedJanuary 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March
29, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
13. 
"Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement between the MRDI, RD and
TRRC setting forth the obligations of the parties in relation to the Project implementation
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
14. 
"RAP" means the Borrower's resettlement action plan, dated March 29, 2013,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared and implemented for carrying out the Project in
accordance with the RPF (as hereinafter defined), to set out, inter alia, the principles and
objectives of the RAP, the affected persons' eligibility criteria, compensation, assistance
and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and reporting arrangements in
conformity with the RPF.
15. 
"RD" means the Borrower's Roads Department of the Ministry of Regional Development
and Infrastructure responsible for managing the Borrower's road network or any legal
successor thereto.
16. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework, satisfactory to the
Bank,dated February 7, 2013,and referred to in Part C of Section I of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, describing the policies, procedures, plans and actions (including the
resettlement action plan), and institutional measures related to land acquisition and other
social impacts that may arise during the Project and other phases related to the Project,
and satisfactory to the Bank.
17. 
"Site-specific EMP(s)" means the Borrower's site specific environmental management
plan(s), acceptable to the Bank prepared or to be prepared by the Borrower during the
Project implementation in accordance with the EMP and approved by the Bank,
describing environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures under the
Project.
18. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with carrying out
training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per diem for local trainees,
study tours, workshops, conferences, rental of facilities and equipment and training
materials and related supplies,
19. 
"TRRC" means the Eurasia Transport Corridor Investment Center/Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center established pursuant to President's Order No. N-161, dated April
21, 2000, or any legal successor thereto.
17
