OFFICIAL
-
I DOCUMENTS 1
LOAN NUMBER 8280-ID
Loan Agreement
(Second P,)we.r Ti ansmission Development Project/
Scattered Transmision Li nes and Substations in Indonesia Phase II)
between
REPUltLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Date-d 
f v60sT 
2-s 
, 2013
1
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 17 
LN-8280
LOAN NUMBER 8280-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Avrv5Tr 
28 , 2013, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, three hundred twenty five million Dollars ($325,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by
the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of
the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3 of 17 
LN-8280
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower mey a: an5 time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to fi cilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all cr aay p ortion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or -ny portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding 
iom a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any
portion of the princ pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on E. Fixed 'Ref,ren:e Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount oft ie Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Variable -prei d to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on t.e V iriable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an litere t Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requtsted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shell )e 
onsidered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and stall be e ffected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of
the General Condil ioni an( of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares itb cc-m.tnent to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions (f Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provit ions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall othe-wise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the 1 provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -- REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Slispe ision consists of the following, namely, the Project
Implementing Entity's Legislatior has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materialLy aid adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity
to perform any of its obligatioms un ier the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Ace..erat on consists of the following, namely, the event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreemnt o:curs.
4 of 17 
LN-8280
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing
Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin No.1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
62-21-381-2859
Jakarta
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
5 of 17 
LN-8280
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic ofIbione 3ia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Authorized Representative
N:une: Robert Pakpahan
Title: 
Epert Staff of Minister of Finance
on State Revenue with Full Mandate as
Director General of Debt Management
IN TERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
uth 
Representative
Name: -oepIirvC 
PArWs(aTM
Title: 
AVfTV 
Co00wn4TY 
PiP-cr-DP
6 of 17 
LN-8280
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to meet growing electricity demand and increase access to
electricity in the Project Area through strengthening and expanding the capacity of the power
transmission networks in the Project Area in a sustainable manner.
The Project consists of the following parts:
1. 
Extension and rehabilitation of selected existing 150/20 kV substations and 70/20 kV
substations in the Project Area, including adding one or more new transformers and
associated equipment; and/or replacing existing transformers with new transformers and
associated equipment with higher capacity.
2. 
Construction of selected new 150/20 kV substations in the Project Area, including
installation of transformers and associated equipment.
7of 17' 
LN-8280
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the PRoject hnplementing Entity under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, in accordance with the
regulations of the Borrower in I iis regard and under terms and conditions agreed by the
Borrower and the Bank, and wl ich shall include the following obligations of the Project
Implementing Ent.ty:
(a) 
to make: (i) payrrent to I ae Borrower of a front-end fee in an amount equal to the
Front-end Fee specif ied n Section 2.03 of this Agreement; (ii) repayment to the
Borrower of the proceeds of the Loan over a period consistent with Section 2.06 of
this Agreement; and (iii) F ayment to the Borrower of interest on the Withdrawn Loan
Balance at a variiblo rat: per annum equal to the rate payable by the Borrower
pursuant to Sectio: 2.04 cf this Agreement, subject to any request that the Borrower
may make. pursuant tD Se:tion 2.07 of this Agreement, plus a maximum of one half
of one percent (0.5%) per inumm; and
(b) 
to ensure that the Proj ect i; carried out in accordance with all of the provisions of the
Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement applicable to the Project Implementing
Entity.
2. 
-he Borrower shall exerci:;e is ril hts under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Bcrrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Borrower an I the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, >r waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, the aforementioned, o, an3 provision thereof.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1 .
The Borrower shal:: (a) ensure thet the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project
Implementation Phn; and I:b) except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree in
writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated,
or waived, the aforementio.aed or i ny provision thereof
2. 
In the event of any conflict betwe en the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan and
those of this Agreement, tl e h tter ;hall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure thal the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidel ne and the Governance and Accountability Framework.
8 of 17 
LN-8280
D. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to comply with, or measures necessary to
enable the Project Implementing Entity to complete the acquisition of land and all rights to
use related thereto required for the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project and
to comply with, the provisions of Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section H1. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed in writing
between the Project Implementing Entity and the Bank. Each such Project Report shall cover
the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project Implementing
Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
3. 
The Borrower shall have or cause to have the Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section S.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing
Entity. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this
Section.
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and M of the Procurement Guidelines.
9 of 17 
LN-8280
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurersent of Goods and Works
International Competitive Bid ing. Goods and works shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Ir ten iatio aal Competitive Bidding.
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurei ient Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set :brth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All othei oti 
acts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the :roceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Condit ons, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specifr by notict: to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" catel M iy 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable .o this Agreenent pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as se: forth in the tat le in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following tab..e speci5es the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ('Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, an< the percertage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in
each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
Financed
(exclusive of Taxes)
Goods and works for the Proiect 
325,000,000 
100%
L TOTAL AMOUNT 
3259000,000
10 of 17 
LN-8280
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
II of 17 
LN-8280
SCHEDULE 3
A: nortization Schedule
The following table sets 6orth thc Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the -roceed3 of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the princi"al amo int of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be detennine I by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal PEyment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable a nount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
.
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 Mar 2021 
2.64%
15 Sep 2021 
2.71%
15 Mar 2022 
.
2.77%
15Sep 2022 
2.84%
15 Mar 2023 
2.91%
15 Sep 2023 
2.99%
15 Mar 2024 
3.06 %
15 Sep 2024 
3.14%
15 Mar 2025 
3.22%
15 Sep 2025 
3.30%
15 Mai 2026 
3.38%
15 Sep 2026 
3.46%
15 Mar 2027 
3.55 %
15 Sep 2027 
3.64%
15 Mar 2028 
3.73 %
15 Sep 2 028 
3.82%
15 Mar 2029 
3.92%
15 Sep 2029 
4.02%
15 Mar 2030 
4.12%
15 Sep 2030 
4.22%
15 Mar 2031 
4.33%
15 Sep 2031 
4.43%
15 Mar 2032 
4.55%
15 Sep 2032 
4.66%
15 Mar 2033 
4.78%
15 Sep2033 
4.89%
15 Mar 2034 
4.92%
Tot al 
100%
12 of 17 
LN-8280
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date,
such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal
and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to
the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
13 of 17 
LN-8280
APPENDIX
Section . Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guideline:;" ir eans the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projeicts Finaaced by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in . anuary 2011.
2. 
"Category" mears a category s.t forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Directorate of Finance' 
nea is the directorate of the Project Implementing Entity
responsible for finance, or ary su cessor thereto.
4. 
"Directorate of P..anning anc. Af1liation Development" means the directorate of the Project
Implementing Entity respon ible for planning and affiliation development, or any successor
thereto.
5. 
"Directorate of Strategic Prcur:ment and Primary Energy" means the directorate of the
Project Implementing E atit 
re sponsible for procurement and primary energy, or any
successor thereto.
6. 
"Eligibility Criteria" meaas the c -iteria for Sub-projects set out in paragraph 3(a) of Section
I.B of the Schedule to the Project kgreement.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the Project Implementing
Entity's framework, dated F.bruiry 28, 2013 and adopted by PLN on April 2, 2013 and
agreed with the Bank, setting o it mitigation, enhancement monitoring, and institutional
measures, includ:.ng capacity 
uilding through training, to eliminate any adverse
environmental and/or social inpa,.ts of activities to be implemented under the Project, offset
them, or reduce them to accep able levels, or enhance positive impacts, including the
requirements for each Grou) 2 Sub-project for the development of either Site-Specific
Provisions to form an attachnen: to the Environmental Management Plan (Extension and
Rehabilitation) or an Envion'nenial Management Plan (New Construction), as applicable, as
the same may be modified fr>m lime to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any scaedtles or annexes to such framework.
8. 
"Environmental Codes of 1rac7 ice" means standard environmental specifications for
contractors of PLN, acceptable tc the Bank and included in the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, and recuired to be included in bidding documents and contracts
and supervised during the implem mtation of civil works for each Sub-Project, together with
the procedural and institutont.l mcasures needed to implement such practices, and such term
includes any schedules or E=mxes to such codes of practice.
9. 
"Environmental IV[anagenent Ph n" means either an Environmental Management Plan
(Extension and Rehabilittioni), t )gether with applicable Site Specific Provisions, or an
Environmental Management Plan (New Construction), as applicable.
14 of 17 
LN-8280
10. 
"Environmental Management Plan (Extension and Rehabilitation)" means the Project
Implementing Entity's plan, satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 28, 2013, which: (a)
sets out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity
building through training, Environmental Codes of Practice (standard environmental
specifications) for contractors, and chance finds procedures to eliminate any adverse
environmental impacts of activities of extension and rehabilitation to be implemented under
the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts; (b)
for the purposes of implementation by the Project Implementing Entity of each Sub-project,
attaches the relevant Site-Specific Provisions for such Sub-project as approved in writing by
the Bank, and (c) includes any modifications to such plan made from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and any schedules or annexes to such plan.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan (New Construction)" means each of the Project
Implementing Entity's plans for Group 2 Sub-projects with new construction referred to in
paragraph 8 of Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to be developed by the
Project Implementing Entity and agreed with the Bank, which sets out mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, Environmental Codes of Practice (standard environmental specifications for
contractors) and chance finds procedures, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of
activities to be implemented under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such
plan.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
13. 
"Group 1 Sub-projects" means Sub-projects: (a) meeting the Eligibility Criteria, including,
without limitation, the criteria set out in paragraph 3(a) of Section I.B of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement; (b) expected to begin implementation prior to the first anniversary of the
date of signing of this Agreement; and (c) approved in writing by the Bank for inclusion as
Group 1 Sub-projects in the Project Implementation Plan as originally adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to the Project Implementation Plan and paragraph 1(a) of
Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
14. 
"Group 2 Sub-projects" means Sub-projects: (a) meeting the Eligibility Criteria, including,
without limitation, the criteria set out in paragraph 3(a) of Section I.B of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement; (b) expected to begin implementation on or after the first anniversary of
the signing of this Agreement; and (c) approved in writing by the Bank for inclusion as
Group 2 Sub-projects in a revisions to the Project Implementation Plan duly adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity.
15. 
"Governance and Accountability Framework" means the Project Implementing Entity's
framework, part of the Project Implementation Plan, setting out measures to reinforce Project
governance, enhance transparency of Project activities, increase public accountability, and
reduce opportunities for corruption, fraud, or collusion, as the same may be modified from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules or annexes to such framework.
15 of 17 
LN-8280
16. 
"Indigenous Peoples" mcam tho ;e social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct social and
cultural identity, and tha: art sus-eptible to being disadvantaged in the development process
affected by the Project cr any p rt thereof as follows: (a) masyarakat adat (customary law
communities) based on kneige .r locality and bound by customary law with characteristics
including: (i) self-identification as a distinct indigenous cultural group; (ii) collective
attachment to ancestral Lerritorifs and to the natural resources in the territories; and (iii)
customary cultural, eco:nonic, social, or political institutions; and (b) Komunitas Adat
Terpencil (KAT) (Isolated and Vulnerable communities), a category of customary law
communities designated by the Borrower that live in isolated areas with characteristics
including: (i) collective attacnnt to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in the
territories; (ii) customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions; (iii) an
indigenous language; (iv) having a subsistence economy; (v) using simple tools and
technology; (vi) having a high dependence on the environment and local natural resources;
and (vii) having rtstricted access to social, economic, and political services.
17. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" iean; each plan referred to in paragraph 10 of Section I.D of the
Schedule to the Project Agrueme nt, to be developed by the Project Implementing Entity and
agreed with the Bank for each Gi oup 2 Sub-project with respect to which Indigenous Peoples
have been identified in accordani;e with the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, setting
out measures to avoid, and, if ni it possible, minimize cultural, social and economic adverse
effects on Indigenous Peo;les, caused or likely to be caused by the Project, by taking
appropriate mitigating measares, as the same may be modified from time to time with the
prior written agreement cf the Beak, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such
plan.
18. 
"Indigenous Peoples P.anning Framework" means the Project Implementing Entity's
framework, satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 28, 2012, setting out measures to avoid,
and, if not possible, mir imize c altural, social and economic adverse effects on Indigenous
Peoples, caused or likely to be caused by the Project, as such Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework may be modi fiecd fro: n time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes a:l schedu les and annexes to such framework.
19. 
"kV" means kilovolt.
20. 
"Land Acquisition and R!sett.ement Action Plan" means each land acquisition and
resettlement action plan, re:erref to in paragraph 9 of Section I.D of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, to be developed by the Project Implementing Entity and agreed with the
Bank for each Group 2 Sub -proj ect which will result in Project Affected People, setting out
the arrangements pertaiing to land acquisition and the resettlement, rehabilitation, and
compensation of such Pri)je;t Al fected People under the Project in accordance with the Land
Acquisition and Resettlemeit Pilicy Framework, as any such plan may be modified from
time to time with the prior wr .tten agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules or annexes to a uC. plal .
16 of 17 
LN-8280
21. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework" means the land acquisition and
resettlement policy framework, satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 28, 2012, setting out
the arrangements pertaining to land acquisition and the development of Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Action Plans for the compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Projected
Affected People, as such Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes all schedules and annexes to such framework.
22. 
"Procurement Committee" means the Project Implementing Entity's procurement committee
referred to in paragraphs 3 and 5 of Section I.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement
23. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
24. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May 3,
2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of such paragraphs.
25. 
"Project Affected Person" means a person who, on account of implementation of the Project,
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (i) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person.
26. 
"Project Area" means selected parts of the territory of the Borrower as follows: (i) in East
Indonesia, the Provinces of South Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan, East Kalimantan, West
Kalimantan, South Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, West Sulawesi, South East
Sulawesi and Gorontalo; (ii) in Java-Bali, the Provinces of Bali, Banten, Central Java, East
Java, Jakarta, West Java, and Yogyakarta; and (iii) in West Indonesia, the Provinces of
Aceh, North Sumatra, Bengkulu, Jambi, Lampung, South Sumatra, West Sumatra, Riau, Riau
Islands, and Bangka-Belitung, or such other Provinces as may be agreed in writing between
PLN and the Bank, and this term includes any future administrative division or
reorganization of these territories in these Provinces by the Borrower.
27. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's plan, including the
Governance and Accountability Framework and the Procurement Plan, referred to in
paragraph I of Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such plan.
28. 
"Project Implementing Entity" and the acronym "PLN" means PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara
(Persero).
17 of 17 
LN-8280
29. 
"Project Implementing Enti-y's 'egislation" means the Borrower's Law 19 of 2003, Law 40
of 2007, Law 30 of 2009, Gove nment Regulation 10 of 1989, Government Regulation 3 of
2005, Government RegUlation 23 of 1994, Government Regulation 45 of 2005, the Project
Implementing Entity's t:y-laws, and includes any other laws and regulations governing the
organization, reorganization, r structuring, and operations of the Project Implementing
Entity, as any of them m ity le an iended or supplemented from time to time.
30. 
"Project Managiment 1Jni:" n eans the Project Implementing Entity's unit, under the
Directorate of Planning and Afiliation Development, established and operating pursuant to
the Project Implementing Entity s Decree No. 303.K/DIR/2013 of May 14, 2013, and whose
responsibilities under thc Projec are set out in paragraph 3 of Section LA of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement
31. 
"Province" means an administra ive sub-division of the Borrower's territory at the first level
below the nationid level.
32. 
"Regional Project Mangemaent Office" means each of the Project Implementing Entity's
regional-level offices, establisl ed and operating pursuant to the Project Implementing
Entity's Decree Nos. 166..K/D:R/2013 dated February 13, 2013, 167.K/DIR/2013 dated
February 13, 2(13, 169.K/DIJ2013 dated February 13, 2013, 171.K/DIR/2013 dated
February 13, 2013, 174/)IR/.013 dated February 13, 2013, and 144.K/DIR/2013 dated
February 5, 20L 3, respon;ible for regional-level technical supervision of the Project
Implementing Entity's activities, as described in paragraphs 7 and 8 of Section I.A of the
Schedule to the Project Agrmeme nt.
33. 
"Site-Specific Provisions" mews the provisions forming one or more attachments to the
Environmental Managenien: Plfn (Extension and Rehabilitation) for each Sub-project with
extension and rehabilitation acti ities which shall: (a) for Site-Specific Provisions for Group
I Sub-projects mean those pr( visions attached to the Environmental Management Plan
(Extension and Rehabilitatin) ts adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on April 2,
2013; and (b) for Site-Speci 5c P :ovisions for Group 2 Sub-projects, mean those provisions as
have been prepared, approved at d disclosed in accordance with paragraph 7 of Section I.D of
the Schedule to the Project Ygre nment.
34. 
"Sub-project" mians one o: mcare contract packages, for one or more substations, grouped
together for procuremeni pu.-pos -s under the Project.
35. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agre-ment" means the agreement referred to in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement and in paragraph I )f Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to
which the Borrower shal] mi ke the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project
Implementing Entity.
