LOAN NUMBER 8246-PE
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the
Sierra Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement, as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan
Agreement) between REPUBLIC OF PERU 
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of
providing additional financing for activities scaling up the Original Project (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to 
in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars
($20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the scale-up of the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Borrower's Minister of Economy and Finance ("MEF"), or the
Borrower's Director General of Indebtedness and Public Treasury ("DGETP") of
MEF, and/or any person whom he or she shall designate and communicate in
writing to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MINAG, acting through
AGRO RURAL, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
-2-
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provision of the General conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan (i.e.
no later than October 2, 2014).
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided
that the Borrower's Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or
herself, represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this
Agreement which are consider of an administrative and non-financial nature. The
signing by such Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a
representation by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is
considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Per6
Facsimile:
+51 (1) 626-9921
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at 
_ 
ry C_ "__r_u 
on behalf of the 
Bank
on 
(Oct( 
opr 
.L 
Dt2 
and at 
?rma 
Y 
on behalf of
the Borrower on 
4 A 
013 
.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
(Athorized 
Representative
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the assets and
economic conditions of rural families in selected areas of the Borrower's Apurimac,
Ayacucho, Huancavelica, Junin, Huinuco and Pasco regions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Promotion of Rural Businesses
(a) 
Design and implementation of a communication and dissemination
strategy of information on Rural Business Plans amongst rural producers
and stakeholders.
(b) 
Provision of financing and technical assistance to support the preparation
of viable Rural Business Plans proposals.
(c) 
Co-financing the carrying out of Rural Business Plans.
Part 2: Promotion of Territorial Development Plans
(a) 
Promotion and dissemination of information on Territorial Development
Plans amongst rural communities and stakeholders in selected areas of
the Borrower's territory with limited access to markets.
(b) 
Provision of financing and technical assistance to support the design and
preparation of viable Territorial Development Plans proposals.
(c) 
Co-financing the carrying out of Territorial Development Plans.
Part 3: Project Mana2ement
Support AGRO RURAL in its day-to-day management of the Project, through:
(i) the provision of technical advisory services; (ii) co-financing the carrying out
of specific studies; (iii) supporting the coordination of the Project at subnational
level; and (iv) the operation and maintenance of an adequate monitoring and
evaluation system (M&E) to track progress of the project.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower, through MINAG,
shall operate and maintain, until completion of the Project, a unit within AGRO
RURAL to be responsible for the overall coordination and management of the
Project, such unit to maintain adequate coordination and administrative staff in
numbers and with qualification and experience, under terms of reference, and
through competitive selection methods satisfactory to the Bank; which unit shall
have the functions and responsibilities in accordance with the Operational
Manual, including, inter alia, the following responsibilities:
(a) 
overall responsibility for implementing, planning, coordinating and
monitoring of Project activities;
(b) 
orientation and supervision of the work of all the Project staff;
(c) 
carrying out of the Project's dissemination and communication strategy;
(d) 
revision and updating of the Operational Manual;
(e) 
preparation of the Progress Reports;
(f) 
elaboration of the annual operational plans for the Project;
(g) 
carrying out of Project procurement and contracting of the required
goods, works, non-consulting and consultants' services;
(h) 
review and clearance of all the contracts necessary for Project execution;
(i) 
carrying out of the financial management of the Project, including
without limitation, the issuance of financial statements and reports as per
Section II of this Schedule and the preparation and maintenance of
administrative, procurement and financial records;
(j) 
preparation and submission to the Bank of: (i) disbursement requests in
accordance with Section IV and any additional instructions; and (ii)
Project information and Project management reports in accordance with
the formats established in the Operational Manual; and
-6-
(k) 
provision of assistance and documentation to external independent
auditors.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINAG, shall establish, by no later than ninety (90) days
after the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain at all times during the execution
of the Project a Project Steering Committee (Consejo Directivo), presided by the
Borrower's Minister of Agriculture or its designated representative, with the
overall responsibility for providing policy oversight and guidance for the
implementation of the Project and with functions and composition as defined in
the Operational Manual (the "Project Steering Committee"). The Project Steering
Committee shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(a) 
providing support and a coordination framework for the implementation
of the Project;
(b) 
providing strategic guidelines for the implementation of the Project;
(c) 
overseeing the compliance with Project norms and objectives and the
execution of the Project (including reviewing bi-annual Project Reports,
procurement report and Project audits); and
(d) 
approving the selection and appointment of the Project's Executive
Coordinator and any of the six Project regional coordinators.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MINAG, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall adopt within ninety (90) days after
the Effective Date, an operational manual satisfactory the Bank (the Operational
Manual), which shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project (including the procurement, disbursement, financial, social and
environmental requirements thereof);
(b) 
the roster of the Borrower's regions and areas that are eligible to
participate in the Project;
(c) 
the administrative rules and procedures for planning, preparing,
proposing, contracting, financing, implementing, supervising, monitoring
and evaluating Project activities and/or the Plans, including the detailed
-7-
criteria and procedures for Plans' selection, and the applicable term and
conditions for their financing under the Project;
(d) 
the ESCMF, including the environmental criteria for screening and
selecting Plans and the mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for
any such Plans which could possibly have a negative environmental
impact;
(e) 
the Procurement Plan; and
(f) 
the list of Project monitoring and performance indicators.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through AGRO RURAL in accordance
with the Operational Manual.
3. 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower, through AGRO
RURAL, subject to the prior approval of the Bank. In the case of any conflict
between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Environmental and Social Provisions
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall:
(a) 
carry 
out the Project 
in accordance 
with the provisions 
and
recommendations of the ESCMF (including provisions regarding pest
management and social policies); and
(b) 
monitor, supervise and ensure that the Plans are carried out in accordance
with the provisions and recommendation of the ESCMF and any agreed
Plan-specific environmental, social (indigenous) and cultural mitigation
plans.
E. 
Territorial Development Plans & Rural Business Plans
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall select the Plans in accordance with
eligibility criteria and screening and selection procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I of this Subsection E, prior to the carrying out of
any Plan, the Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall enter into an agreement
(the "Plan Agreement") with the Plan beneficiary(ies), under the standard
financial terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, which shall
include, inter alia:
-8-
(a) 
a description of the approved activity(ies) with its/their budget, the
preparatory study(ies), and the disbursement and performance indicators;
(b) 
the obligation of the Plan beneficiary(ies) to: (i) carry out the
activity(ies) with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, agricultural, social, natural and environmental
standards and the provisions of the Operational Manual (including the
ESCMF and/or any mitigation plans prepared thereunder) and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in
accordance with simple and sound accounting practices defined in the
Operational Manual, the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Plan; (iii) comply with regular reporting requirements in
accordance with contents and standards specified in the Operational
Manual; and (iv) make a contribution in kind or/and in cash as defined in
the Operational Manual (which contribution may comprise co-financing
arrangements 
by 
other public 
entities, 
regional 
and municipal
governments, and/or third parties, in which case said co-financier shall
co-sign the pertinent Plan Agreement);
(c) 
the obligation of the Plan Beneficiary(ies) to: (i) procure all goods,
works, consultants' and non-consulting services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines and the Consultants Guidelines, as further
elaborated in this Agreement and/or the Procurement Plan; and (ii) use
such goods, works, consultants' and non-consulting services exclusively
for the carrying out of the activity(ies) agreed to be financed under the
approved Plan;
(d) 
the right of the Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, to inspect, by itself
and jointly with the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the records,
documents (e.g. plans, designs, etc.), goods, construction works and
physical sites related to the financed Plan, as well as the operations
thereof;
(e) 
the right of Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, to obtain: (i) all
information that the Bank may reasonably request regarding the
administration, operations and financial conditions of the activity(ies)
financed by the Plans; and (ii) if the Bank so request, an audited financial
statements, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, on the
beneficiary's(ies') use of the Plan funds; and
(f) 
the right of the Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, to suspend and
terminate the right of Plan beneficiary(ies) to use the proceeds of the
Loan; and (ii) the obligation of the beneficiary(ies) to refund any used
-9-
portion of the Loan to the Borrower, upon failure by the beneficiary(ies)
to perform any of its obligations under the respective Plan Agreement.
3. 
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall exercise its rights and carry
out its obligations under each Plan Agreement in such manner as to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and protect the rights of the
Borrower and the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall notify the Bank and seek its
prior concurrence for any amendment and/or deviation to be introduced to
a Plan Agreement that, in the opinion of the Bank, may contradict any of
the foregoing requirements set forth in paragraph 2 above, and/or
jeopardize the achievement of the Project's objective. The Borrower,
through AGRO RURAL, shall notify the Bank of any remedies triggered
in respect of any Plan Agreement within thirty (30) days of exercising
such remedies.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall monitor and evaluate the progress
of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth
in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall maintain or cause to be maintained
a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions. To this end, AGRO RURAL shall install, by no later
than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, the financial information system
("SIGER") in the Project coordination office.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through AGRO RURAL, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each
Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall have its Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
-10-
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
such period.
4. 
For purposes of paragraph 3 above, the Borrower, through AGRORURAL, shall
select and engage the services of an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, including a minimum 3-year
contract.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
-11-
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth
in paragraph 3 below
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct contracting
(d) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable
to the Bank
3. 
Special Provisions for National Competitive Bidding. In addition and without
limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this Section or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement
of goods, works and non-consulting services with National Competitive Bidding
procedures under this Section:
(a) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process.
(b) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding
documents or used for the purpose of bid evaluation.
(c) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed
in the invitation to bid.
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National Competitive
Biddings without restriction, and shall not be subject to any unjustified
requirement which will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited
to, the requirement to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding documents or
any document related to such bidding documents with either Peruvian
Consulates, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian
authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.
(e) 
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall use standard bidding
documents and standard evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
-12-
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Least Cost Selection
(c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(d) Single-source Selection of consulting firms
(e) Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial
Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
3. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern all employment of consultants:
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process.
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with
Peruvian Consulates, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any
Peruvian authorities as a condition of participation in said selection
process.
(c) 
The Borrower, through AGRO RURAL, shall use standard requests for
proposals and standard evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants' Association that are different from
those required for Peruvian consultants.
(e) 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, at the time
he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant,
hold civil service office or any other position in any agency or
instrumentality of the Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any right
to re-entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or
her consulting services.
-13-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, consultants'
services and non-consulting
services, Training and
Operating Costs, and 
13,350,000 
100%
amounts disbursed for
Rural Business Plans for
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, works, consultants'
services and non-consulting
services, Training and
Operating Costs, and 
5,735,000 
100%
amounts disbursed
Territorial Development
Plans for Part 2 of the
Project
-14-
(3) Goods, consultants'
services and non-consulting
services, Training and 
915,000 
100%
Operating Costs for Part 3
of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account:
(a) 
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; and
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016.
Section V. 
Additional Covenants
Schedule I to the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to
read as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning on August 15, 2017 through 
12.50%
February 15, 2021
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-16-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"AGRO RURAL" means the Unidad Ejecutora (Implementing Unit) Programa
de Desarrollo Productivo Agrario Rural - AGRO-RURAL, within the purview of
MINAG's Vice-Minister, as established by the Borrower's Legislative Decree
997, of March 13, 2008, or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Apurimac" 
means 
the 
Borrower's 
Apurimac 
administrative 
region
acknowledged under Chapter XIV of the Constituci6n Politica del Pert; (Peru's
Constitution).
4. 
"Ayacucho" 
means 
the 
Borrower's 
Ayacucho 
administrative 
region
acknowledged under Chapter XIV of the Constituci6n Politica del Perti (Peru's
Constitution).
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
7. 
"Environmental, Social and Cultural Management Framework" and the acronym
"ESCMF" mean the Borrower's safeguard framework dated April 2011, and
agreed by the Bank, detailing, inter alia: (i) the procedures for the screening of
Plans to determine their environmental and social impacts and the corresponding
mitigation measures to be applied during the Project implementation; (ii) the pest
management plan to be used whenever pesticides are used in the carrying out of
Plans; and (iii) an indigenous peoples' framework setting forth the strategies,
procedures, activities, and monitoring indicators addressing, in a culturally
appropriate manner, indigenous peoples' concerns under the Project (including
Plans). The ESCMF document may be amended by the Borrower from time to
time subject to the prior approval of the Bank.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
-18-
9. 
"Huancavelica" means the Borrower's Huancavelica administrative region
acknowledged under Chapter XIV of the Constituci6n Politica del Perzi (Peru's
Constitution).
10. 
"Huinuco" means the Borrower's Hudnuco administrative region acknowledged
under Chapter XIV of the Constitucidn Politica del Perzi (Peru's Constitution).
11. 
"Junin" means the Borrower's Junin administrative region acknowledged under
Chapter XIV of the Constituci6n Politica del PerM (Peru's Constitution).
12. 
"MEF" means the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto.
13. 
"MINAG" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto.
14. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses (other than
consultants' 
and non-consulting services) incurred on account of Project
implementation, management and monitoring including, but not limited to, office
supplies, insurance (excluding life insurance), communications expenses,
operation and maintenance of offices, vehicles, equipment and computers,
supervision costs such as travel, lodging, and per diems, as well as the reasonable
costs of promotional activities.
15. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual for the operation of the
Project, to be adopted pursuant to Section I.C of the Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
16. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement in support of the Sierra
Rural Development Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated May 26,
2008 (Loan 7443-PE), as amended.
17. 
"Original Project" means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Original
Loan Agreement, as amended pursuant to this Agreement.
18. 
"Pasco" means the Borrower's Pasco administrative region acknowledged under
Chapter XIV of the Constitucidn Politica del Perui (Peru's Constitution).
19. 
"Plan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered by the Borrower,
acting through AGRO RURAL, with any Plan beneficiary(ies) for the financing
of a Plan, pursuant to the provisions of Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
20. 
"Plans" means collectively, the Rural Business Plans and/or the Territorial
Development Plans; and Subproject means, indistinctly, any one of these Plans.
-19-
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 30, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee to be established pursuant to
in Section I.A.2 of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Rural Business Plan" means a subproject in any of the selected municipalities
of the Apurimac, Ayacucho, Huancavelica, Junin, Hudnuco and Pasco regions
that promotes productive alliances between regional and local stakeholders, in
order to strengthen market access and competitiveness, increase productivity and
production quality, create more predictable demand, provide key technological
inputs, introduce new production practices, help disseminate timely market and
pricing information, and/or identify and exploit emerging niche markets for: (a)
agriculture (which may include activities related to, inter alia, crops, livestock,
and agro-forestry); (b) nonagricultural activities (which may include aquaculture,
tourism, services, handicrafts, small-scale industry, and agribusiness initiatives);
or (c) for another agricultural or non-agricultural development activity that meets
the objective of the Project and the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual, and that has been duly approved by the Borrower and the Bank.
25. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applied to all references
to "the date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
26. 
"Territorial Development Plan" means a Plan to diversify, expand, and/or
improve the assets and production of rural families in any of the selected
municipalities of the Apurimac, Ayacucho, Huancavelica, Junin, Huinuco and
Pasco regions having limited access to markets, aimed primarily at improving
natural resource management, reducing vulnerability to risks, and increasing
agricultural and livestock production for self-consumption by families and
organized rural communities through: (a) improvements to increase yields
(including the use of improved cultivation techniques), soil conservation and
water retention methods, optimized input use, and plant protection; (b) to the
extent possible, generate excess production for sale in local markets; or (c)
another development activity that meets the objective of the Project and the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, and that has been duly
approved by the Borrower and the Bank.
-20-
27. 
"Training" means the reasonable expenditures (other than consultants and non-
consulting services) 
incurred by the Borrower for the carrying out of training
activities under the Project, including reasonable costs of travel, subsistence, and
per diem for trainers and trainees (i.e. "study tours"), registration fees, and the
purchase and/or printing of training materials.
-21-
