OFFICIAL
DOCUMEtATS
LOAN NUMBER 8257-BR
Loan Agreement
(Development Policies for the State of Sergipe Development Policy Loan)
(Politicas de Desenvolvimento no Estado de Sergipe)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SERGIPE
Dated 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 6  
fr) 
jf 
2013, 
entered 
into 
between 
the
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and the STATE OF SERGIPE ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis,
inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the Borrower's
maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and
(iii) appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
(B) the Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the Bank of the
proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in the Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program) into an account to be designated
by the Borrower, the Borrower's financial capacity will be strengthened by expanding its
fiscal space to finance further public investments in accordance with the Borrower's
budgetary laws.
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million Dollars
($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Borrower's
10N/
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's Secretary of Finance.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
-2-
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread for the full maturity of such amount in
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the
Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on: (i) the Guarantor's macroeconomic
policy framework; (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure 
program, 
sustainable 
debt, 
and 
appropriate 
fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor; and (iii) the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower's
ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt,
and/or 
appropriate 
fiscal arrangements 
with the Guarantor; 
or
(ii) reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
-3-
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower
to reverse any action or policy under the Program, including any action
listed in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that
would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of
the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor's
macroeconomic policy framework.
(b) 
The Bank is satisfied with the Borrower's maintenance of: (i) an
appropriate 
expenditure 
program; 
(ii) 
sustainable 
debt; 
and
(iii) appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's
approval of the Loan which expire on November 21, 2014.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Governor.
-4-
cN
0
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Avenida Tancredo Neves No. 151
Centro Administrativo Augusto Franco
Aracaju, SE 49080-900
Facsimile: (55-79) 3216-7297
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
s of the day
and year first above written./
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF SERGIPE
By
Authorized Representative
-5-
i:~N/C
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Pro2ram
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program, aimed at: (a) consolidating fiscal
management and public sector innovations; (b) increasing access to better quality public
services in health and education; and (c) promoting socioeconomic development and
inclusive growth in the interior of the Borrower's territory, include the following:
1. 
Consolidating Fiscal Management and Public Sector Innovations:
(a) 
The Borrower, through SEPLAG, has improved the quality of
government-citizen services, standardizing and simplifying service
patterns for public services, as evidenced by: (i) the issuance of
Borrower's Decree No. 28837 of October 18, 2012, and published in the
Borrower's Diario Oficial on October 22, 2012, regulating a "one-stop
shop" model (Guichi Unico); and (ii) the issuance of Borrower's
Portaria No. 3242 of October 29, 2012, published in the Borrower's
Diario Oficial on October 31, 2012, establishing the charter of services.
(b) 
The Borrower, through SEFAZ, 
has modernized key planning,
budgetary, financial execution, public accounting, and control processes,
as evidenced by the issuance of Borrower's Decree No. 28830 of
October 16, 2012, and published in the Borrower's Didrio Oficial on
October 18, 2012, making compulsory within the Borrower's executive
branch the use of a new integrated financial management information
system (i-Gesp).
(c) 
The Borrower, through SEFAZ, has increased revenues combating fiscal
avoidance through the expansion and improvement of tools for tax
arrears collection combating fiscal avoidance, as evidenced by the
issuance of Borrower's Decree No. 28843 of October 19, 2012, and
published in the Borrower's Di6rio Oficial on October 23, 2012.
2. 
Increasing Access to Better Quality Public Services:
(a) 
The Borrower, through SES, has improved the quality of maternal and
newborn health services for high-risks pregnancies, through its adhesion
to the Rede Cegonha Program and the organization of the Borrower's
health system into regional networks, as evidenced by:
(i) 
The signature, by SES, on April 13, 2012, of an amendment to
the Public Action Contract to formalize SES's adhesion to the
-6-
SUS and related programs, including the Rede Cegonha Program
and the publication of its excerpt in the Diario Oficial on
April 25, 2012.
(ii) 
The issuance, by SES, of Deliberations No. 07 of May 24, 2012,
No. 117 of June 8, 2012, No. 118 of June 8, 2012, No. 124 of
June 20, 2012, No. 125 of June 21, 2012, No. 126 of
June 22, 2012, and No. 127 of June 22, 2012, approving the
annual regional plan for the implementation of the Rede
Cegonha Program in the Borrower's regions of Aracaju,
Itabaiana, Estdncia, Nossa Senhora do Socorro, Proprid,
Lagarto and Nossa Senhora da Gl6ria respectively.
(b) 
The Borrower, through SEED, has improved school management in the
Borrower's public schools network, through the establishment of
meritocratic process for the selection of school directors and the design
and use of result-based management strategies, as evidenced by the
issuance of Borrower's Decree No. 29120 of March 6, 2013, published in
the Didrio Oficial on March 8, 2013, ordering the implementation of said
management model and strategies in the Borrower's public schools
network.
(c) 
The Borrower, through SEED, has improved learning results in
municipal elementary schools, through the implementation of the PNAIC
in the Borrower's territory, as evidenced by the issuance of Portaria
No. 6146 of October 4, 2012, published in the Didrio Oficial on
October 10, 2012, establishing the state-municipal collaboration with
respect to the PNAIC.
3. 
Promoting Socioeconomic Development and Inclusive Growth
(a) 
The Borrower has enhanced the quality and sanitary conditions of the
cattle milk and dairy production in the Borrower's territory, as evidenced
by the issuance of Borrower's Decree No. 28733 of August 27, 2012,
published in the Di6rio Oficial on August 30, 2012, incorporating family
farmers into the Dairy Production Clusters (part of the Intensive
Production System), providing sanitary certification of dairy products,
and supporting the genetic enhancement of the herd in the irrigated
perimeter of the Borrower's region of Jabiberi.
(b) 
The Borrower has promoted the sustainable use of environmentally-
sustainable practices (green growth) in agriculture through the creation
of a program for the promotion of organic production for family farmers,
and the establishment of incentives for environmentally sustainable
production, as evidenced by the enactment of Borrower's Law No. 7270
-7-
of November 
17, 
2011, 
published 
in the Didrio Oficial on
November 23, 2011, creating incentives for sustainable green production
and defining family agriculture.
(c) 
The Borrower has increased employment and income opportunities for
the most vulnerable workers (i.e. seasonal orange and sugar cane
production workers) through its inclusion in literacy and technical
capacity building programs, as evidenced by a list, certified by SEIDES,
containing the names of participants enrolled in the literacy programs
(Sergipe Alfabetizado) and the capacity improvement courses.
(d) 
The Borrower has strengthened its social assistance system through the
institutionalization of the state-municipality co-financing arrangements
supporting the Busca Ativa Program in order to guarantee the continuous
identification and inclusion of poor families in the Guarantor's single
registry for social programs (CadUnico), as evidenced by the enacting of
Borrower's Law No. 7251 of October 31, 2011, setting forth the detailed
resource transfer system to finance social assistance in municipalities.
(e) 
The Borrower has scaled up state and municipal support to programs
aimed at protecting women in situations of violence and vulnerability, as
evidenced by the signing of four technical cooperation agreements
between the Borrower and: (i) the municipality of Proprid, dated
October 
9, 
2012; 
(ii) 
the 
municipality 
of Estancia, dated
December 7, 2012; 
(iii) 
the 
municipality 
of Itabaiana, dated
October 9, 2012; and (iv) the municipality of Poqo Redondo, dated
October 9, 2012, decentralizing women protection and support programs
throughout the Borrower's territory.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amount of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
-8-
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
149,625,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
375,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied:
(a) 
with the Guarantor's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework;
(b) 
with the Borrower's maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure
program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii) appropriate fiscal arrangements
with the Guarantor; and
(c) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. The Bank will grant an
extension of the Closing Date only after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has
informed the Bank that it agrees with such an extension.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning on July 15, 2018 
1.66
through January 15, 2028
From July 15, 2028
through January 15, 2041 
2.46
On July 15, 2041 
2.84
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 10 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 11 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Busca Ativa Program" means the Guarantor's program for the identification and
inclusion of poor families in the CadUnico within the Plano Brasil Sem Misria
strategy, established pursuant the Presidential Decree No. 7492, dated
June 2, 2011, and published in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial on June 3, 2011, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
"CadUnico" means the Guarantor's single registry for social programs created
pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 6135, dated June 26, 2007, and published on
the Guarantor's Didrio Oficial on June 27, 2007, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
3. 
"Dairy Production Clusters" means the association of dairy producers under the
Intensive Production System, created pursuant to the Borrower's Decree
No. 28733, dated August 27, 2012.
4. 
"Dicirio Oficial" means the Borrower's and/or Guarantor's legal publications
newspaper, as the case may be.
5. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
- 12 -
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set
gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
7. 
"Guichi Unico" means the borrower's citizen service attention system created
pursuant to the Borrowers' Decree No. 28837, dated October 18, 2012, and
published on October 22, 2012.
8. 
"i-Gesp" means integrated financial management information system of
compulsory use for the Borrower's executive branch, pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 28830, dated October 16, 2012, and published on October 18, 2012.
9. 
"Intensive Production System" means the Borrower's federal government
technology transfer and quality assurance program to strengthen dairy production
- 13 -
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 28733, dated August 27, 2012, and
published on October 30, 2012.
10. 
"PNAIC" means Programa Nacional de Alfabetizaqdo na Idade Certa, the
Borrower's federal government Literacy at the Right Age Program, pursuant to
the Borrower's federal education minister Portaria No. 867, dated July 4, 2012.
11. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
strengthen the Borrower's public sector reforms, budget management and
sectoral policy management in the areas of social inclusion and environmental
management in order to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in
poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated October 3, 2012, from the
Borrower to the Bank, declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program
during its execution.
12. 
"Rede Cegonha" means the Borrower's federal government maternal and child
health program, pursuant to the borrower's federal health minister Portaria
No. 1459, dated June 24, 2011.
13. 
"SEED" means Secretaria de Estado da Educagdo, the Borrower's State
Secretariat of Education.
14. 
"SEFAZ" means Secretaria da Fazenda, the Borrower's State Secretariat of
Finance.
15. 
"SEPLAG" means Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento, Orqamento e Gestdo,
the Borrower's State Secretariat of Planning, Budget and Management.
16. 
"Sergipe Alfabetizado" means the literacy program in which in accordance with
the Termo de Adesdo dated October 18, 2012, the Borrower adheres to the
Guarantor's 
literacy 
program 
created 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Guarantor's
Resolution/CD/FNDE No. 44, dated September 5, 2012.
17. 
"SES" means Secretaria de Estado da Sadde, the Borrower's State Secretariat of
Health.
18. 
"SEIDES" 
means 
Secretaria de Estado da Inclusdo, Assistincia e
Desenvolvimento Social, the Borrower's State Secretariat of Inclusion, Protection
and Social Development.
19. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
- 14 -
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
"... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
- 15 -
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
- 16 -
