DOCULENT S
LOAN NUMBER 8302-BR
Loan Agreement
(Operation to Strengthen Service Delivery for Growth, Poverty Reduction, and
Environmental Sustainability in the State of Ceari -
Projeto de Apoio ao Crescimento Econbmico com Reducdo das Desigualdades e
Sustentabilidade Ambiental do Estado do Ceard - PforR Ceard)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF CEARA
Dated 
-91, 
2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
_g 
, _/o 
, 
2014 
between
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and STATE OF CEARA ("Borrower"). The Bank and the Borrower hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions for the Program and the General Conditions for the
Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred fifty million Dollars
($350,000,000), out of which: (a) the amount of three hundred fifteen million
Dollars ($315,000,000) shall be allocated to the Program part of the Operation
(the Program Loan), and (b) the amount of thirty five million Dollars
($35,000,000) shall be allocated to the Project part of the Operation (the Project
Loan), as any of such amounts may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement, to assist in financing the Operation.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Program Loan and the Project
Loan in accordance with each Section IV of Schedules 2 and 3 to this
Agreement, respectively. All withdrawals from the Program Loan Account
shall be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and
acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the
Borrower's Secretary of Planning and Management (Secretdrio do Planejamento
e Gestdo).
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to: (a) one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) of the Program Loan amount; and (b) one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Project Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Program Loan Currency or Project Loan
Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Program Loan or Project Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
the respective General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount
of the Withdrawn Program Loan Balance or Withdrawn Project Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period
of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be
calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the respective General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Program Loan and the Project Loan shall be
repaid in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Program Loan and/or the Project Loan
in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Program
Loan and/or the Project Loan, withdrawn and unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Program Loan
and/or the Project Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Program Loan and/or the Project Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference
Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the
principal amount of the Program Loan and/or the Project Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread, and (iii) the setting
of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Program Loan and/or the
Project Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the respective General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance
with the provisions of Article IV of the respective General Conditions
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
OPERATION
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Operation. To this
end, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out the Operation; and
(b) 
cause Participating Agencies to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
selected activities under the Operation that fall under their administrative
jurisdiction, as follows: (i) ADECE to participate in activities under Part
1.1 of the Operation; (ii) CAGECE to carry out activities under Part 1.3 of
the Operation; and (ii) COGERH to carry out activities under Part 1.3 of
the Operation;
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the respective General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Operation is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedules 2 and 3 to this Agreement, as applicable.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any
Participating Agency shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations
under the respective Participating Agency Agreement, so as to affect materially
and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the Borrower's ability to perform its
obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in paragraph 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for
a period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that
the ADECE Participating Agency Agreement, the CAGECE Participating
Agency Agreement, and the COGERH Participating Agency Agreement have
been entered into between the Borrower and the respective Participating Agency.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by
the Borrower's counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicates that the
ADECE Participating Agency Agreement, the CAGECE Participating
Agency Agreement, and the COGERH Participating Agency Agreement
have been duly authorized or ratified by, executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with its respective terms;
(b) 
ADECE, CAGECE, and COGERH, through a legal opinion satisfactory
to the Bank, issued by ADECE, CAGECE, and COGERH's respective
counsels, acceptable to the Bank, indicate that its respective Participating
Agency Agreement has been duly authorized by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, ADECE, CAGECE, and COGERH, and is legally
binding upon ADECE, CAGECE, and COGERH, all as the case may be,
in accordance with its respective terms.
(c) 
The Program Loan and Project Loan have been registered with the
Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the
Operation which expire on May 21, 2015.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria do Planejamento e GestAo do Estado do Ceari
Centro Administrativo Gov. Virgilio TAvora
Av. General Afonso Albuquerque Lima, s/n
Ed. SEPLAG, 30. Andar
Cambeba
60830-900 Fortaleza, CE
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-85) 3101-4518
-4-
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Orgamento e GestAo
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco K -
o andar
Brasilia, DF, 70040-906
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-61) 2020-5006
and
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda - SEFAZ
Avenida Alberto Nepomuceno, 2 - Centro
60000-050 Fortaleza, CE
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-85) 3101-9134
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGRED t 
iP#~ 
qoii 
40%aeJ# 
,/ 
4A 
as of the
day and year first above writfen. 
F
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
AV
Authorized Representative
STATE OF CEARA
B
Autho 
Representativ
-6-
SCHEDULE I
Operation Description
The objective of the Operation is to support the Borrower to improve public
service delivery, particularly in the areas of skills development, family assistance and
water quality.
The Operation consists of the following:
Part 1: The Program
The Program consists of the following selected subprograms and activities set
forth in the PPA:
1 .
Skills Development: Carrying out of the Borrower's subprogram on secondary
professional education, through:
(a) 
the maintenance and operation of the Borrower's professional training
schools;
(b) 
the construction, expansion and refurbishing of the Borrower's
professional training schools, including the acquisition of equipment,
vehicles, and/or the adaptation of technology laboratories in selected
schools; and
(c) 
the acquisition and printing of teaching materials, support for research
and the provision of scholarships to selected students.
2. 
Family Assistance: Carrying out of the Borrower's subprograms on family
assistance, by expanding PAIF through CRAS.
3. 
Water Quality: Carrying out of the Borrower's subprogram on water quality,
through:
(a) 
the development and implementation of a water security plan for the
Watersheds;
(b) 
the expansion of household connections to existing sewerage networks in
the metropolitan region of Fortaleza and in the Acarari and Salgado
basins;
(c) 
the preparation and implementation of solid waste management plans in
the Borrower's territory; and
-7-
(d) 
the strengthening of hydro-environmental prediction and monitoring
systems.
Part II: Technical Assistance (the Project)
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity in:
1. 
Cross-cutting Public Sector Management, by, inter alia:
(a) 
Strengthening results based management by designing incentives and
mechanisms for coordinating the Borrower's secretariats' role in carrying
out the Operation.
(b) 
Designing 
and 
implementing 
investment 
planning 
and costing
methodologies.
(c) 
Carrying out of a payroll audit, providing recommendations to strengthen
payroll processes and controls, assessing and redesigning human
resource management; reforming budget preparation and execution
procedures, including the design of an internal coordination and
validation mechanisms for revenue forecasts.
(d) 
Strengthening citizen participation and monitoring to leverage the
Borrower's capacity to better identify citizen's demands for policies and
services, including evaluating the current participatory practices under
the PPA, including the design of methodologies to optimize the
participatory process, and of strategies and technological solutions to
enable third party monitoring of the Borrower's subprograms on skills
development and family assistance.
(e) 
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity for coordinating the Operation
through IPECE, including building IPECE's capacity on managing
procurement and carrying out financial management 
under the
Operation, as the case may be, including the development of a
monitoring system and, to CGE, the provision of support for the carrying
out of technical audits of DLI compliance under the Program.
2. 
Sector Specific Public Sector Management, on:
(a) 
Skills development, by, inter alia, improving the design, monitoring and
evaluation of the Borrower's programs related to vocational education
and innovation, including:
-8-
(i) 
the collection of data on program processes, outputs and
outcomes;
(ii) 
the carrying out of an assessment of the institutional framework
and management practices within the secondary vocational
training system and the design of a training program for
instructors, teachers and directors, and the provision of
entrepreneurship training, student support services and student
testing; and
(iii) 
the design and implementation of a private sector development
strategy to support the growth of the Borrower's productive
sector.
(b) 
Family Assistance and poverty reduction, by, inter alia:
(i) 
Designing and implementing a training program for municipal
ECD coordinators in techniques for coaching crches and pre-
school instructors, and for school principals in management, all
with emphasis on results based management and pedagogy.
(ii) 
Developing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating a pilot
home-based parenting program (Programa de Acompanhamento
do Desenvolvimento Infantil - PADIN) aimed at training parents
and caregivers in providing better cognitive and language
stimulation to children under five years old, including the
provision of training required therefor.
(iii) 
Monitoring and building capacity for the CRAS by strengthening
their ability to target families in need and oversee program
implementation, including the provision of training required
therefor.
(iv) 
Strengthening the monitoring and result-based management of
FECOP-financed programs, with emphasis on activities related
to family assistance.
(v) 
Analyzing the impact of health policies on social inequality.
(c) 
Water quality, by, inter alia:
(i) 
(A) Evaluating and providing recommendations for improving
the legal and institutional framework for water management in
the 
Borrower's 
territory, 
including the 
development 
of
mechanisms for participatory watershed 
management; 
(B)
-9-
carrying out of an environmental assessment of the Borrower's
policies and programs for water security plans; (C) classifying
the Borrower's reservoirs by use and water quality objective; (D)
designing a methodology for modeling water quality in the
Borrower's territory; and (E) strengthening the Borrower's
capacity to monitor water quality, including the carrying out of
an assessment of water quality laboratories and equipment and of
participatory water management.
(ii) 
(A) Strengthening municipal environmental agencies in the
Watersheds by providing training to municipal technical staff
and identifying necessary regulatory instruments; (B) assessing
the economic impact of environmental degradation and climate
change; (C) providing advice on draft legislation to support the
emergence of a market for environmental services in the
Borrower's territory; and (D) strengthening capacity to monitor
compliance with environmental legislation and apply infractions.
(iii) 
(A) Preparing recovery plans to mitigate the environmental
liabilities associated with degraded open air dumps; (B)
designing and implementing a recycling program in the
Watersheds; and (C) assessing and advising on improvements in
the structure of solid waste management regulations in the
Borrower's territory.
3. 
Strengthening Fiduciary Systems
(a) 
Supporting the Borrower's adoption of international public sector
accounting standards through: (i) the provision of training for selected
Borrower's staff, (ii) the distribution of an accounting manual to selected
Borrower's staff; (iii) the carrying out of a staffing needs assessment to
determine the appropriate organizational structure; and (iv) improving
information systems to support the implementation of a Chart of
Accounts.
(b) 
Strengthening the TCE's capacity in: (i) implementing international
accounting and auditing standards; (ii) preparing guidance materials and
providing training to selected TCE's staff; and (iii) coordinating input
from and with legislatures and citizens.
(c) 
(i) Designing and implementing management information systems to
support execution of bidding processes; (ii) preparing a proposal for
improving the Borrower's standard bidding documents; (iii) adopting a
system of preventive internal controls, management information and
-10-
social outreach; 
and 
(iv) 
modernizing the Borrower's 
'licitar'
information system.
-11
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions for
the Program, the Borrower shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to
be carried out, in accordance with financial management, procurement and
environmental and social management systems acceptable to the Bank ("Program
Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure
that:
1. 
the Program Loan proceeds are used for the achievement of their intended
purposes, with due attention to the principles of economy, efficiency,
effectiveness, transparency, and accountability; and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program
are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through
an informed decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Program Institutions
(a) 
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section 1, the
Borrower shall, through SEPLAG, cause IPECE to coordinate, monitor
and report on the execution of the Program, and to operate, at all times,
aiming at the implementation of the Program, with powers, functions,
capacity and resources satisfactory to the Bank to discharge such
functions under the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause, through and in accordance with Participating
Agency Agreements, each Participating Agency to maintain adequate
staff in sufficient numbers to carry out the activities under the Program
that fall within their administrative jurisdiction, and to operate, at all
times, aiming at the implementation of the Program, with powers,
-12-
functions, capacity and resources satisfactory to the Bank to discharge
such functions under the Program.
2. 
Implementation Agreements
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall enter
into a Participating Agency Agreement with each of the Participating
Agencies, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, including,
inter alia, the obligation to: (i) carry out the activities which fall within
its administrative jurisdiction under the Program; and (ii) comply with
the pertinent provisions of this Schedule as applicable to said
Participating Agency, including compliance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
each Participating Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Program Loan. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Participating Agency Agreement or any of its provisions.
(c) 
Without limitation to the generality of Part A of this Section I, the
Borrower shall, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, carry out, and/or
cause the Participating Agencies to carry out, the Program Action Plan in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
Other Undertakinas
The Borrower shall carry out, until the completion of the Program, Management
Meetings to convene at least once every semester, to discuss progress under the
Operation and provide guidance concerning the overall supervision of the
Operation, and shall submit, promptly thereafter, the minutes of said meetings to
the Bank.
Section I. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
1. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are
sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people;
or
2. 
involve the procurement of: (a) works, estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent
or more per contract; (b) goods, estimated to cost $30,000,000 equivalent or
-13-
more per contract; (c) non-consulting services, estimated to cost $20,000,000
equivalent or more per contract; or (d) consultants' services, estimated to cost
$15,000.000 equivalent or more per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation, Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and
prepare Program Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions for the Program. Each Program Report shall cover the period
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45
calendar days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section I.A of this Schedule 2 and Section
5.09 of the General Conditions for the Program, the Borrower shall have the
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
(b) of the General Conditions for the Program. 
Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than twelve months after the end of such period.
C. 
Technical Audits
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than six months after the Effective Date, hire
independent auditors under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to carry
out the vcrification of compliance of the DLIs/DLRs which are set forth in the
table in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule; and (b) cause said independent auditors
to, not later than thirty days after the verification of compliance of said
DLIs/DLRs has been completed, prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the
Bank, a report on the results of said verification of compliance process of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Program Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Program Loan in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions for the Program, this
Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify from time to
time by notice to the Borrower to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee; and (b) finance the
-14-
Program Expenditures, on the basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked
Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as measured against specific
indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Program Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable)
("Category for the Program"), the Disbursement Linked Results for each
Category for the Program (as applicable), and the allocation of the amounts of the
Program Loan to each Category for the Program:
Category for the 
DLR Baseline 
Disbursement 
Amount of the
Program 
(as applicable) 
Linked Result (as 
Loan
(including Disbursement 
applicable and 
Allocated
Linked Indicator as 
expressed in USD) 
(expressed in
applicable) 
USD)
(1) DLI No. 1: Approval of Not applicable 
(a) Draft strategy
skills development 
document prepared 
39,375,000
strategy, preparation of the 
and at least four
action plan and 
agreements signed
implementation of selected 
with private sector,
actions under the action 
and four agreement
plan 
signed with academic
institutions, to assist
the Borrower in
finalizing and
implementing the
strategy
4,462,500
(b) Committee
established by decree
6,198,000
(c) Strategy document
finalized
2,744,448
(d) Action plan
published
-15-
Category for the 
DLR 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the
Program 
Baseline 
Result (as applicable 
Loan
(including Disbursement 
(as 
and expressed in USD) 
Allocated
Linked Indicator as 
applicable) 
(expressed in
applicable) 
USD)
(1) DLI No. 1: Approval of Not 
(e) One action from the 
3,444,000
skills development 
applicable 
action plan implemented
strategy, preparation of the
action plan and 
(f) A second action 
3,444,000
implementation of selected 
implemented from the
actions under the action 
action plan
plan (continued)
(g) A third action 
3,120,000
implemented from the
action plan
(2) DLI No. 2: 
Not 
(a) First monitoring report 
3,444,000
Establishment of 
applicable 
published
monitoring system for
TVET programs 
(b) Second monitoring 
3,444,000
report published
(3) DLI No. 3: Total 
Eight 
(a) Total of ten in the first 
2,744,444
number of agreements in 
agreements in 
semester of CYl 5
effect with private 
effect
companies to contribute 
(b) Total of 12 in the 
3,403,750
equipment, in situ training, 
second semester of CY 15
and provide input to
curriculum design or 
(c) Total of 13 in the first 
3,444,000
course instructors 
semester of CY 16
(d) Total of 15 in the 
3,438,000
second semester of CY 16
(e) Total of 16 in the first 
3,444,000
semester of CYl 7
(f) Total of 18 in the 
3,120,000
second semester of CY17
(4) DLI No. 4: Percentage 
Zero 
(a) 10% in the second 
3,403,750
of families with children 
semester of CY 15
aged 0-5 located in
Selected Municipalities 
(b) 15% in the second 
3,438,000
and enrolled in Cadastro 
semester of CY 16
Onico are receiving family
support through CRAS 
(c) 25% in the second 
3,120,000
semester of CY1 7
-16-
Category for the Program 
DLR Baseline 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the
(including Disbursement 
(as 
Result (as applicable 
Loan
Linked Indicator as 
applicable) 
and expressed in USD) 
Allocated
applicable) 
(expressed in
USD)
(5) DLI No. 5: Percentage of Zero 
(a) 15% in the first 
2,744,444
technical teams in CRAS 
semester of CY 15
trained in family support
(b) 30% in the second 
3,403,750
semester ofCY15
(c) 42.5% in the first 
3,444,000
semester of CY16
(d) 55% in the second 
3,438,000
semester of CY 16
(e) 75% in the first 
3,444,000
semester of CY 17
(f) 95% in the second 
3,120,000
semester of CY 17 
________
(6) DL No. 6: Percentage of Zero 
(a) 22.5% in the first 
2,744,444
FECOP-financed family 
semester of CY15
assistance projects with log
frames 
(b) 45% in the second 
3,403,750
semester of CY17
(c) 55% in the first 
3,444,000
semester of CY16
(d) 70% in the second 
3,438,000
semester of CY16
(e) 82.5% in the first 
3,444,000
semester of CY17
(f 95% in the second 
3,120,000
semester of CYI 7
-17-
Category for the 
DLR Baseline 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the
Program 
(as applicable) 
Result (as applicable 
Loan
(including Disbursement 
and expressed in USD) 
Allocated
Linked Indicator as 
(expressed in
applicable) 
USD)
(7) DLI No. 7: 
Not applicable 
(a) Committee 
39,375,000
Establishment of an inter- 
established by decree
agency Water Security
Committee 
(b) Diagnostic of the 
2,744,444
Watersheds completed
(c) Minutes of at least 
3,444,000
two committee
meetings held in the
first semester of CY16,
with each minutes
valued at 1,435,000
3,438,000
(d) Minutes of at least
two committee
meetings in the second
semester of CYI 6, with
each minutes valued at
1,910,000 
3,444,000
(e) Minutes of at least
two committee
meetings held in the
first semester of CYI 7,
with each minutes 
3,120,000
valued at 1,435,000
(f) Minutes of at least
two committee
meetings held in the
second semester of
CYI7, with each
minutes valued at
1,560,000
(8) DLI No. 8: Percentage 
83.3% 
(a) 83.8% in the first 
5,250,000
of households with 
semester of CY 14
adequate connection to
sewage system 
(b) 84.3% in the second 
6,198,000
semester of CY 14
-18-
Category for the Program 
DLR Baseline 
Disbursement Linked Result (as 
Amount of
(including Disbursement 
(as applicable) 
applicable and expressed in. 
the Loan
Linked Indicator as 
USD) 
Allocated
applicable) 
(expressed
in USD)
(8) DLI No. 8: Percentage 
83.3% 
(c) 84.6% in the first semester of 
2,744,444
of households with 
CY15
adequate connection to
sewage system (continued) 
(d) 84.9% in the second semester 
3,403,750
of CY15
(e) 85.2% in the first semester of 
3,444,000
CY16
(f) 85.5% in the second semester 
3,438,000
of CY16
(g) 85.7% in the first semester of 
3,444,000
CY17
(h) 85.9% in the second semester 
3,120,000
of CYI 7
(9) DLI No. 9: Index of 
17% 
(a) 28% in the first semester of 
5,250,000
Environmental 
CYI4
Enforcement Quality
(b) 40% in the second semester of 
6,198,000
CY 14
(c) 50% in the first semester of 
2,744,444
CY15
(d) 60% in the second semester of 
3,403,750
CY15
(e) 65% in the first semester of 
3,444,000
CY16
(f) 70% in the second semester of 
3,438,000
CY16
(g) 75% in the first semester of 
3,444,000
CYI 7
(h) 80% in the second semester of 
3,120,000
CY17
-19-
Category for the Program 
DLR Baseline 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the
(including Disbursement 
(as applicable) 
Result (as applicable 
Loan
Linked Indicator as 
and expressed in USD) 
Allocated
applicable) 
(expressed in
USD)
(10) DLI No. 10: 
Not applicable 
(a) Monitoring 
2,744,444
Implementation of 
methodology defined
participatory water quality 
and adopted
monitoring
(b) Data collection 
3,403,750
protocol defined and
adopted
Zero for the 
(c) Methodology 
3,438,000
number of 
implemented in one
reservoirs 
reservoir in the
Borrower's territory in
the second semester of
CY16
3,120,000
(d) Methodology
implemented in two
additional reservoirs in
the Borrower's territory
in the second semester
of CY17
(11) DLI No. 11: Number of Not applicable 
(a) Approval of model 
6,198,000
the Borrower's secretariats 
for aligning incentives
under the Program using the
model for aligning 
Zero for the 
(b) One in the first 
2,744,444
incentives with its 
number of 
semester of CYl 5
respective strategic 
secretariats
objectives 
(c) Two in the second 
3,403,750
semester of CY 15
(d) Three in the first 
3,444,000
semester of CY16
(e) Four in the second 
3,438,000
semester of CY16
(f) Five in the first 
3,444,000
semester of CY 17
-20-
Category for the Program 
DLR Baseline 
Disbursement 
Amount of the
(including Disbursement 
(as applicable) 
Linked Result (as 
Loan
Linked Indicator as 
applicable and 
Allocated
applicable) 
expressed in USD) 
(expressed in
USD)
(11) DLI No. 11: Number 
Zero for the number 
(g) Six in the second 
3,120,000
of the Borrower's 
of secretariats 
semester of CY17
secretariats under the
Program using the model
for aligning incentives with
its respective strategic
objectives (continued)
(12) DLI No. 12: Total 
Not applicable for 
(a) Approval of 
6,198,000
percentage of public 
approval of 
methodology
investments under the 
methodology;
Program prepared using 
(b) 5% of investments 
3,444,000
approved methodology 
Zero for percentage 
in first semester of
of investments 
CY16
3,438,000
(c) 10% of
investments in second
semester of CY t6
3,444,000
(d) 25% of
investments in first
semester of CYl7
3,120,000
(e) 
40% 
of
investments in second
semester of CY 17
(13) Front-end Fee to be Not applicable 
Not applicable 
787,500
paid pursuant to Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement
in accordance with Section
2.07(b) 
of the 
General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
T315,000,000
-21-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions for the Program,
for payments for Program Expenditures made prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $78,750,000 equivalent may be made for results achieved prior to
this date but on or after December 20, 2012; and
(b) 
for any DLR referred to in the table in Part A.2 of this Section (except
under the Prior Results), until and unless the Borrower has furnished
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said DLR has been achieved on
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section:
(a) 
the Borrower may withdraw an amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$15,750,000 as an advance; provided, however, that if any DLR set forth
in the table in Part A.2 of this Section, in the opinion of the Bank, is not
achieved or is only partially achieved by the Closing Date, the Borrower
shall promptly refund to the Bank such advance, or any portion of such
advance as determined by the Bank, upon notice thereof from the Bank.
Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the
amount so refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance
under any Category for the Program shall be permitted only on such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower;
(b) 
if the Bank is satisfied that a DLR has been exceeded by the date by
which said DLR is set to be achieved, in a manner that it fully or partially
achieves a subsequent and respective DLR, the Bank may decide, at its
sole discretion and at any time, by notice to the Borrower, to authorize
the withdrawal of such amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the
Program Loan then allocated to said subsequent and respective DLR
which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of
achievement of said DLR and
(c) 
if the Bank is not satisfied that any of the DLRs (except the DLRs under
Categories for the Program (1)(b) through (g), (2), (7)(b), (10)(a) and (b),
(l l)(a), and (1 2)(a)) has been achieved by the date by which the said
DLR is set to be achieved, the Bank may, at any time, by notice to the
Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to:
-22-
(i) 
authorize, except for the DLR under Categories for the Program
(7)(c) through (f):
(A) 
the withdrawal 
of such lesser 
amount of the
unwithdrawn proceeds of the Program Loan then
allocated to said DLR under the respective Category for
the Program which, in the opinion of the Bank,
corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR,
said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with
the Formula;
(B) 
subsequent disbursements against the respective DLR
(except the DLRs under Categories for the Program (3)
and (11)) to be calculated in accordance with the
Formula for Subsequent DLR;
(C) 
disbursement of previously 
undisbursed 
amounts
allocated to the respective DLR (except the DLRs under
Categories for the Program (3) and (11)), if and when
the Bank shall be satisfied, on the basis of evidence
acceptable to the Bank, that a partially achieved DLR for
which a lesser amount has been disbursed pursuant to
subparagraph (A) above has been fully achieved;
(ii) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Program Loan
then allocated to said DLR to any other DLR; and/or
(iii) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Program Loan then
allocated to said DLR.
3. 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2018. The Bank will only grant an extension of
the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after
the Closing Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that the Withdrawn Program Loan Balance does not exceed the total
amount of Program Expenditures paid by the Borrower, exclusive of any such
expenditures financed by any other financier or by the Bank or the Association
under any other loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn
Program Loan Balance. 
The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance.
-23-
SCHEDULE 3
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, through SEPLAG, cause IPECE to: (a) coordinate and
monitor the carrying out of the Project; (b) be responsible for the carrying out of
financial management and procurement under the Project (including the use of
SEPA); and (c) monitor and operate, at all times during Project implementation,
with staff, powers, functions, capacity and resources satisfactory to the Bank to
discharge such functions under the Project, all in accordance with the
Procurement Operational Instructions for the Project, the Procurement Plan and
this Schedule.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out, until the completion of the Project, Management
Meetings to convene at least once every semester, to discuss progress under the
Project and provide guidance concerning the overall supervision of the Project,
and shall submit, promptly thereafter, the minutes of said meetings to the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordafice with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Project.
C. 
Safeguards.
The Borrower shall adopt terms of reference for non-consulting services and for
consultants' services under such activities of the Project in accordance with the
requirements of the Bank Safeguards Policies then in force and as applicable, all
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall, through SEPLAG, cause IPECE to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions for the Project on the basis
of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
-24-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions for the Project.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall,
through SEPLAG, cause IPECE to, in collaboration with SEPLAG, prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than sixty calendar days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
scmcstcr, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, through SEPLAG, cause IPECE to, in collaboration with
SEPLAG, have the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions for the Project.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than twelve months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Non-consulting Services. 
All non-consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Project 
Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of
the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive 
Bidding. Except as otherwise provided 
in
paragraph 2 below, non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
-25-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Non -consulting services: The following
table specifies the methods of procurement other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, convite, tomada de preos and concornncia,
and the method known as pregdo eletr6nico, subject to the following,
namely, that the pregio eletrdnico system and the bidding documents shall
be acceptable to the Bank
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Methods
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(d) Least Cost Selection
(e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-26-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Project Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Project Loan in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions for the Project, this Section,
and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance the Project
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Project Eligible Expenditures that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Project Loan ("Category for the
Project"), the allocation of the amounts of the Project Loan to each Category for
the Project, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Project Eligible
Expenditures in each Category for the Project.
Category for the 
Amount of the Project 
Percentage of
Project 
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Non-consulting 
34,912,500 
100%
services and
consultants' services
(2) Front-end Fee 
87,500 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03(b) of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
for the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
35,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
The Closing Date is January 31, 2018. The Bank will only grant an extension of
the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.
-27-
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh
(11th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the
Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on the fiftieth- (50th)
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-fortieth (1/40) of
the Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining
outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after
February 15, 2043, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate
amount of all such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either. (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
-28-4U
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ADECE" means AgOncia de Desenvolvimento do Estado do Ceard, the
Borrower's Development Agency created pursuant to the Borrower's law No.
13.960, dated September 4, 2007, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
"ADECE Participating Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower, through CEDE, and ADECE pursuant to
Section I.C.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program" means the Bank's "Guidelines on
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results
Financing," dated February 1, 2012.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Project" means the "Guidelines on
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in
January 2011.
5. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's operational manual and identified as OP/BP
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10,4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is
published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
6. 
"Cadastro Unico" means the Guarantor's cadastre, established and operated
under the Guarantor's Presidential Decree No. 6.135 of June 26, 2007, as a single
beneficiary database to service all cash transfer programs.
7. 
"CAGECE" means Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Estado do Ceard, the
Borrower's Company of Water and Sewers, created pursuant to the Borrower's
law No. 9.499, dated July 20, 1971, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
8. 
"CAGECE Participating Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower, through SCIDADES, and CAGECE pursuant to
Section I.C.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"Category for the Program" means a category for the Program set forth in the
table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
10. 
"Category for the Project" means a category set forth in the table in
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-29-
11. 
"CEDE" means Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico, the
Borrower's Council for Economic Development.
12. 
"CGE" means Controladoria e Ouvidoria Geral do Estado, the Borrower's
office of the Comtroller General.
13. 
"Chart of Accounts" means the Guarantor's national public accounting system
pursuant to the Guarantor's portaria STN No. 437, dated July 12, 2012, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
14. 
"COGERH" 
means Companhia de Gestdo dos Recursos Hidricos, the
Borrower's Company for the Management of Hydric Resources, created pursuant
to the Borrower's law No.12.217, dated November 18, 1993, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
15. 
"COGERH Participating Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower, through SRH, and COGERH pursuant to
Section I.C.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"CONPAM" means Conselho de Politicas e Gestdo do Meio Ambiente, the
Borrower's Committee fbr Environmental Management Policies, created
pursuant to the Borrower's law No. 13.875, dated February 7, 2007, as amended
to the date of this Agreement.
17. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
18. 
"CRAS" means the Centro de ReferOncia de Assistdncia Social, the Guarantor's
decentralized Social Assistance Reference Centers, created pursuant to the
Guarantor's law No. 8742, dated December 7, 1993, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
19. 
"Creches" means child care center facilities.
20. 
"CY" means calendar year.
21. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI' means in respect of a given Category
for the Program, the indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category
for the Program, the result under said Category as set forth in the table in Section
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of
which, the amount of the Program Loan allocated to said result may be
-30-
withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
23. 
"DLR Baseline" means the baseline result measured against a DLI for the
respective DLR as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
24. 
"ECD" means early childhood development.
25. 
"FECOP" means Fundo Estadual de Combate h Pobreza, the Borrower's Anti-
Poverty Fund, created pursuant to the Borrower's complementary law No. 37,
dated November 26, 2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement, which
finances anti-poverty programs in eleven departments, under SEPLAG's
coordination.
26. 
"Formula" means the measure for calculating disbursements against DLRs given
by the following formula:
Tn - B
where:
(a) "X," is the result achieved in the current period;
(b) "B" is the DLR Baseline;
(c) "T." is the DLR for the current period, and
(d) "V" is the value attributed to the DLR.
27. 
"Formula for Subsequent DLR" means the additional measure for calculating
disbursements against DLRs pursuant to Section IV.B.2(c)(i)(B) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, given by the following formula:
Xg-T 
.V
T. - T.,-I
where:
(a) "X." is the result achieved in the current period;
(b) "T. 1" is the DLR for the prior period,
(c) "T,," is the DLR for the current period; and
(d) "V" is the value attributed to the DLR.
28. 
"General Conditions" means the General Conditions for the Program or the
General Conditions for the Project (as defined herein), as applicable.
29, 
"General Conditions for the Program" means the "International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March
12, 2012, with the modifications for the Program set forth in Section II of this
Appendix.
-31-
30. 
"General Conditions for the Project" means the "International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development General Conditions for Loans", dated
March 12, 2012, with the modifications for the Project set forth in Section III of
this Appendix.
31. 
"Index of Environmental Enforcement Quality" means a composite index issued
by CONPAM, as revised from time to time, measured as a percentage of each:
(a) environmental infractions that have been corrected; (b) total reservoir area
monitored through telemetry; and (c) population participating in municipal
environmental education programs.
32. 
"Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica" means the Guarantor's institute
for geography and statistics, established pursuant to the Guarantor's Decreto-Lei
No. 161, dated February 13, 1967, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
33. 
"IPECE" means Instituto de Pesquisa e Estrategia Econdmica do Ceard, the
Borrower's Institute of Economic Research and Strategy created pursuant to the
Borrower's law No. 13.301, dated April 14, 2003, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
34. 
"Management Meetings" means the meetings held by the Borrower's committee
assigned 
to oversee 
the 
implementation 
of the Operation, 
including
representatives from SEPLAG, SEFAZ, IPECE, and the Participating Agencies.
35. 
"Operation" means the Program and the Project (as defined herein) jointly
conceived as interrelated to each other.
36. 
"PADIN" means Programa de Acompanhamento do Desenvolvimento Infantil,
the Borrower's program on childhood development, created pursuant to the
resolution No. 361, dated June 21, 2000, issued by the Borrower's Conselho de
Educagdo do Ceard, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
37. 
"PAIF" means Programa de Atendimento Integral es Familias, the Borrower's
Family Welfare Program, created pursuant to CRAS.
38. 
"Participating Agency" means ADECE, CAGECE, or COGERH, and/or any
other independent legal entity, satisfactory to the Bank, that may be assigned
administrative jurisdiction to carry out activities under the Operation, and the
plural thereof means all of such agencies collectively.
39. 
"Participating Agency Agreement" means the ADECE Participating Agency
Agreement, the CAGECE Participating Agency Agreement, the COGERH
Participating Agency Agreement, and/or any other agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, that may be entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Agency
for purposes of facilitating the carrying out of the Program.
-32-
40. 
"PPA" means Plano Puriannual, the Borrower's Multi Year Plan approved
pursuant to the Borrower's law No. 15.109, dated January 2, 2012, as published
and available to the public on the website www.seplag.ce.gov.br, which contains
the Borrower's public policy objectives and budgetary guidelines for the period
ranging from the year 2012 to the year 2015.
41. 
"Prior Results" mean the results achieved under Categories for the Program
(1)(a) and (7)(a), namely, and respectively: (a) the draft strategy document and
agreements referred to in Category for the Program (1)(a); and (b) the
establishment of the Water Security Committee as evidcnccd by the Borrower's
decree No. 31.165, dated March 13, 2013, all received and found acceptable by
the Bank.
42. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
43. 
"Procurement Operational Instructions for the Project" means the instructions on
procurement for the Project found satisfactory to the Bank, adopted on October
25, 2013, by the Borrower, through SEPLAG, for the carrying out the Project,
including: (a) IPECE's obligations in carrying out procurement under the Project;
and (b) a description of the procedures for the carrying out of such obligations by
IPECE.
44. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated October 25, 2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
45. 
"Program" means the activities described in Part I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
46. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan for the Program referred to in
Section I.C.2(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and on Annex 8 to the Bank's
Program Appraisal Document dated October 7, 2013, as said plan may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
47. 
"Program Appraisal Document" is the Bank's document dated October 7, 2013.
48. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's
systems for the Program referred to in Section LA of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-33-
49. 
"Project" means the activities described in Part II of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
50. 
"SCIDADES" means Secretaria das Cidades do Estado do Ceard, the
Borrower's Cities Secretariat.
51. 
"SEDUC" means Secretaria da Educaqdo do Estado do Ceard, the Borrower's
Education Secretariat.
52. 
"SEFAZ" means Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado do Ceard, the Borrower's
Finance Secretariat.
53. 
"Selected Municipality" means any of the 36 municipalities in the Borrower's
territory with the highest percentage of families in poverty, according to the 2010
census carried out by the Guarantor's Instituto Brasileiro de Geografa e
Estatistica.
54. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's procurement plans execution system.
55, 
"SEPLAG" means Secretaria do Planejamento e Gestdo do Estado do Ceard, the
Borrower's Secretariat of Planning and Management.
56, 
"SRH" means Secretaria dos Recursos Hidricos do Estado do Ceard, the
Borrower's Secretariat of Hydric Resources.
57. 
"STDS" means Secretaria do Trabalho e Desenvolvimento Social do Estado do
Ceard, the Borrower's Labor and Social Development Secretariat.
58. 
"TCE" means Tribunal de Contas do Estado do Ceard, the Borrower's Court of
Auditors 
created pursuant to the Borrower's law No. 12.509, dated
December 6, 1995, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
59. 
"TVEr' means the Borrower's program titled Educagdo e Forma(!do Tgenico-
profissional, the Borrower's Technical and Vocational Education Training
program, created pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 14.273, dated December
19, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
60. 
"Water Security Committee" means the Borrower's committee on water security,
established 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Borrower's 
Decree 
No. 
31.165, 
dated
March 13, 2013.
61. 
"Watersheds" means the Metropolitan, Acarad and Salgado strategic watersheds
in the Borrower's territory.
-34-
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions for the Program
The modifications to the General Conditions for the Program are as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions for the Program, the term
"Loan" is modified to read "Program Loan", the term "Loan Account" is
modified to read "the Program Loan Account", the term "Loan Currency" is
modified to read "Program Loan Currency", the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read "Program Loan Payment", the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the
Program Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read
"Program Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read
"Program Report", the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read
"Program Expenditures", the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to
read "Unwithdrawn Program Loan Balance"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan
Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn Program Loan Balance".
2. 
The terms "Program Loan Account", "Withdrawn Program Loan Balance",
"Program Loan Payments" have the meanings ascribed to them in the General
Conditions for the Program. The terms "Withdrawn Project Loan Balance",
"Project Loan Payments", "Project Loan Account" have the meanings ascribed in
the General Conditions for the Project.
3. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the amendments set out below.
4. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the
subsequent Sections in Article H are renumbered accordingly.
5. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications
for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for
Withdrawal", and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special
Commitment" is deleted.
6. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted
in its entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
7. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible
Expenditures (renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I
of this Section II), is modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the
reasonable cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Program Loan in accordance with the provisions of the
Legal Agreements".
-35-
8. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06),
Financing Taxes, is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time
determines that the amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is
discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program Expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure consistency
with such policy of the Bank."
9. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to
read: "Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Program Loan to a
withdrawal category under the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate any other amount of the Program Loan to such category if
the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such reallocation is appropriate
for the purposes of the Program."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower
may, by notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Program
Loan Balance."
11. 
Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank. The first paragraph is modified to read: "If
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this Section occurs
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Program Loan
Account and/or the Project Loan Account. 
Such suspension shall continue
until the event (or events) which gave rise to the suspension has (or have) ceased
to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan Parties that such right to make
withdrawals has been restored."
12. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, 
Cancellation by 
the Bank, entitled
"Misprocurement", is deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered
accordingly.
13. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by
Cancellation or Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent
Sections in Article VII and references to such Sections are renumbered
accordingly.
14. 
Section 7.06. Events of Acceleration. The first paragraph is modified to read: "If
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this Section occurs
and continues for the period specified (if any), then at any subsequent time
during the continuance of the event, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties,
declare all or part of the Withdrawn Program Loan Balance and Withdrawn
Project Loan Balance as at the date of such notice to be due and payable
immediately together with any other Program Loan Payments and Project
Loan Payments due under the Loan Agreement or these General Conditions.
-36-
Upon any such declaration, such Withdrawn Program Loan Balance,
Withdrawn Project Loan Balance, Program Loan Payments and Project
Loan Payments shall become immediately due and payable."
15. 
Section 9.05. Termination of Legal Agreements on Full Payment, is modified to
read: "The Legal Agreements and all obligations of the parties under the Legal
Agreements shall forthwith terminate upon full payment of the Withdrawn
Program Loan Balance, Withdrawn Project Loan Balance, and all other
Program Loan Payments and Project Loan Payments due."
16. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers are modified, as
necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above. In addition, the definition
of the term "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent
paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions for the Project
The modifications to the General Conditions for the Project are as follows:
1 .
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions for the Project, the term
"Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read "Project Eligible Expenditure", the
term "Loan" is modified to read "Project Loan", the term "Loan Account" is
modified to read "the Project Loan Account", the term "Loan Currency" is
modified to read "Project Loan Currency", the term "Loan Payment" is modified
to read "Project Loan Payment", the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is
modified to read "Unwithdrawn Project Loan Balance"; and 
the term
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn Project Loan
Balance".
2. 
The terms "Project Eligible Expenditure", "Project Loan Account", "Withdrawn
Project Loan Balance", "Project Loan Payments" have the meanings ascribed to
them in the General Conditions for the Project. The terms "Withdrawn Program
Loan Balance", "Program Loan Payments", "Program Loan Account" have the
meanings ascribed in the General Conditions for the Program.
3. 
Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank. The first paragraph is modified to read: "If
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (in) of this Section occurs
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Project Loan
Account and/or the Program Loan Account. Such suspension shall continue
until the event (or events) which gave rise to the suspension has (or have) ceased
to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan Parties that such right to make
withdrawals has been restored."
-37-
4. 
Section 7.06. Events of Acceleration. The first paragraph is modified to read: "If
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this Section occurs
and continues for the period specified (if any), then at any subsequent time
during the continuance of the event, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties,
declare all or part of the Withdrawn Project Loan Balance and Withdrawn
Program Loan Balance as at the date of such notice to be due and payable
immediately together with any other Project Loan Payments and Program
Loan Payments due under the Loan Agreement or these General Conditions.
Upon any such declaration, such Withdrawn Project Loan Balance,
Withdrawn Program Loan Balance, Project Loan Payments and Program
Loan Payments shall become immediately due and payable."
5. 
Section 9.05. Termination of Legal Agreements on Full Payment, is modified to
read: "The Legal Agreements and all obligations of the parties under the Legal
Agreements shall forthwith terminate upon full payment of the Withdrawn
Project Loan Balance, Withdrawn Program Loan Balance, and all other
Project Loan Payments and Program Loan Payments due."
-38-
