rOiAL
DOJUMENT4
LOAN NUMBER 8232-JO
Loan Agreement
(Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise Development For Inclusive Growth Project)
between
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated MO lc 
\ 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8232-JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
MAQXCA 
\ 
, 2013, between the HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -GENERAL 
CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement,
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy million United States
Dollars ($70,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be pursuant to this Section
is the Governor of the Project Implementing Entity or any authorized designated
person by the Governor.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are September 15 and March 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. Tdfils
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has 
been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
-3 -
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of six (6) months after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
finalized and adopted by the Project Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional 
Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister in charge of planning and
international cooperation.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Post office Box 555
Amman, I 1118
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Facsimile:
962-6-464-9341
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at _______ 
__ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
, as of the day and year first above
written.
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By:
Authorized 
resentative
Name:
Title: 
1PCoL 
CL
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: V&J ALb
Title: 
c~A1f 
~ d i
-6-
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the improvement of access to
finance for micro, small and medium enterprises in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
The Project consists of the following part:
I. 
Lines of Credits
Provision of PFI Loans to eligible PFIs for the purposes of on-lending as Sub-
loans to Eligible Beneficiaries or MFIs for the carrying out of Sub-projects.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Operational Manual, the
Project Agreement and the ESMF and shall ensure that the Project Implementing
Entity does not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the
Project Operational Manual, Project Agreement and ESMF, without prior
approval of the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity, as a loan under a
subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity,
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement")
which shall include inter alia the following: (a) repayment of the principal
amount of the Loan's currency; (b) interest rate charged on such principal
amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with Article
11 of this Agreement and Article Ill of the General Conditions; (c) payment of
any further charges as may be required by the Borrower; and (d) foreign
exchange risk to be borne by the Project Implementing Entity.
2. 
The Borrower shall fulfill its obligations and exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
PFI Agreements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to enter into a PFI
Agreement with each PFI on the terms and conditions set forth in the Project
Operational Manual and eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the
-8-
Bank, and monitor compliance by each PFI with the terms and conditions of each
PFI Agreement. The Project Implementing Entity shall exercise its rights under
each PFI Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Project
Implementing Entity, Borrower, and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan.2. 
Each PFI Agreement shall be entered into on terms and
conditions approved by the Bank which shall include the following:
(a) 
The PFI Loan:
(i) 
may be denominated and repayable in Jordanian Dinars or
foreign currency;
(ii) 
shall be charged interest on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time; and
(iii) 
shall be repayable over a period not exceeding fifteen (15) years
from the date of disbursement of the PFI Loan, inclusive of a
grace period not exceeding five (5) years.
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall obtain rights adequate to protect
its interests and those of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right
to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the PFI to use the proceeds of
the PFI Loan, or declare to be immediately due and payable or
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the PFI Loan
then withdrawn, upon the PFI's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the PFI Loan Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each PFI to:
(A) 
carry out its obligations under PFI Loans with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial,
environmental 
and 
social 
standards 
and 
practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with
the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines
applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the
Borrower;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;
(C) 
cause the Eligible Beneficiaries to procure the goods,
works and services to be financed out of the Sub-loans in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
-9-
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project
and the achievement of its objectives;
(E) 
(1) 
maintain a financial management system and
prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently 
applied 
accounting 
standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and
(2) 
have such 
financial statements 
audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly
furnish the statements as so audited to the
Borrower, 
the 
Bank 
and 
the 
Project
Implementing Entity;
(F) 
enable the 
Borrower, 
the Bank 
and 
the Project
Implementing Entity to inspect the Sub-project, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, the Bank and the
Project Implementing Entity all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank or the Project Implementing
Entity shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity fulfills its
obligations and exercise its rights under each PFI Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and the Project Implementing
Entity and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any PFI Agreement or any of its provisions.
E. 
Sub-projects Selection
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that PFIs:
(a) 
Select Eligible Beneficiaries or MFI which comply with the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual which shall include,
but not be limited to, that the Eligible Beneficiaries or MFIs shall have
an ownership, management and financial structure consistent with the
laws and regulations of the Borrower.
-10-
(b) 
Screen and select Sub-projects in accordance with the selection and
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual and EMSF.
The following Sub-projects shall not be eligible for financing, as further
set forth in the Project Operational Manual:
(i) 
any Sub-projects involving non-eligible expenditures (as such
term is defined in the Project Operational Manual);
(ii) 
any Sub-projects affecting international waterways, natural
habitats, disputed areas or indigenous peoples;
(iii) 
any Sub-projects involving the conversion or degradation of
forest areas;
(iv) 
any Sub-projects involving the involuntary taking of land or
involuntary resettlement resulting in relocation or loss of shelter,
loss of assets or access to assets, loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, or involving the involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas;
(v) 
any Sub-projects involving the construction and rehabilitation of
dams; and
(vi) 
any Sub-projects that would be classified as 'Category A' in
accordance with the Banks policies and procedures.
(c) 
Ensure that no Eligible Beneficiary or MFI shall receive Sub-loans for an
aggregate amount greater than fifteen percent (15%) of the PFI Loan
from the same PFI except as approved in writing by the Bank.
F. 
Sub-loan Agreements
I1. 
Each Sub-loan Agreement between a PFI and an Eligible Beneficiary or MFI
shall be entered into on the terms and conditions set forth in the Project
Operational Manual and eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the
Bank, and the PFI shall monitor compliance by each Eligible Beneficiary or MFI
with the terms and conditions of each Sub-loan Agreement; and shall exercise its
rights under each Sub-loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Each Sub-loan Agreement shall include the
following:
(a) 
The Sub-loan may be denominated and repayable in Jordanian Dinars or
foreign currency.
- 11 -
(b) 
The PFI shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of
the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Beneficiary to use
the proceeds of the Sub-loan, or declare to be immediately due
and payable or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of
the Sub-loan then withdrawn, upon the Eligible Beneficiary's
failure to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-loan
Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Eligible Beneficiary to:
(A) 
carry out its 
Sub-project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank,
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;
(C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out
of the Sub-loan in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement;
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project
and the achievement of its objectives;
(E) 
(I) 
maintain a financial management system and
prepare 
financial 
statements 
in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and
(2) 
at the Bank's or the Borrower's or the Project
Implementing Entity's reasonable request, have
such financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower, the
Bank and the Project Implementing Entity;
-12-
(F) 
enable 
the 
Borrower, 
the 
Bank, 
the 
Project
Implementing Entity and the PFI to inspect the Sub-
project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, the Bank, the
Project Implementing Entity and the PFI 
all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank or the Project
Implementing Entity or the PFI shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing.
2. 
Notwithstanding the forgoing, for purposes of a Sub-loan to an MFI, the PFI
shall ensure that the MFI shall: (i) screen and select Eligible Beneficiaries; and
(ii) make available the proceeds of the Sub-loan to Eligible Beneficiaries in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual and on terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement.
3. 
The PFI shall exercise its rights under each Sub-loan Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the PFI shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-loan
Agreement or any of its provisions.
G. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure the Project is
carried out in accordance with the ESMF and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive any provision of the ESMF without prior approval of the Bank.
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that
adequate information on the implementation of the ESMF is included in the
Project Reports referred to in Section II.A. of this Schedule.
13-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project Implementing Entity prepares interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, and the Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity
furnishes such reports to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of each calendar semester.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall have its
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover
the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
- 14 -
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11 and Ill of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
The following methods of procurement may be used for goods, works and non-
consulting services: Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or
Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with paragraph 3.13 of the Procurement Guidelines, as set forth in the
Project Operational Manual.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
The following method of procurement may be used for consultants' services:
Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices
which have been found acceptable to the Bank in accordance with paragraph 3.13
of the Consultant Guidelines, as set forth in the Project Operational Manual,
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
-15-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) PFI Loans 
69,825,000 
100%
(2) Front-end Fee 
175,000 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant 
to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
70,000,000 
100%
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed fourteen million United
States Dollars ($14,000,000) equivalent may be made for payments made prior to
this date but on or after February 28, 2013 for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each September 15 and March 15
Beginning March 
15, 
2018 through 
2%
September 15, 2042
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 17-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 18-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
I. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"Eligible Beneficiaries" means micro, small and medium enterprises as defined
in the Borrower's laws and regulations, established and operating within the
territory of the Borrower, which meet the eligibility criteria outlined in Section
I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as further set forth in the Project
Operational Manual.
5. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or ESMF" means the
framework document prepared for the Project, dated September 30, 2012,
disclosed in country on September 30, 2012 and on the IBRD 's Infoshop on
October 24, 2012, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to
offset or reduce adverse environmental and social impacts to levels acceptable to
the Bank, and setting forth policies and procedures for environmental screening.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
7. 
"Microfinance Institutions" or *MFl" means non-banks microfinance institutions
including but not limited to for-profit companies, not-for-profit companies,
non-governmental organizations, to which a Sub-loan has been made or proposed
to be made in accordance with Section I.F of this Agreement and the Project
Operational Manual, for the purposes of on-lending to Eligible Beneficiaries.
8. 
"Participating Financial Institutions" or "PFI" 
means a regulated financial
institution, established and operating within the territory of the Borrower, which
meets the eligibility criteria for PFIs set forth and contained in the Project
Operational Manual.
-19-
9. 
"PFI 
Agreement" means an agreement entered into between the Project
Implementing Entity and a PFI on terms and conditions set forth in Section I.D.2
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Project Operational Manual for the purposes of
financing a PFI Loan.
10. 
"PFI Loan" means a loan made, in accordance with criteria set forth in the
Project Operational Manual, by the Project Implementing Entity to a PFI out of
the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of on-lending as Sub-loans to Eligible
Beneficiaries.
I1. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Project Implementing Unit" or "PIU" means the Project Implementing Entity's
unit referred to in Section LA of Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement designated
by the Project Implementing Entity to be responsible for Project Implementation.
13. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Central Bank of Jordan, established
and operating under the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation.
14. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Law Number
23 of the year 1971 pursuant to which the Project Implementing Entity is
established and operating.
15. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the operational manual to be adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity, and referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, describing and setting forth procedures for
implementation of the Project and institutional arrangements, consistent with the
provisions of this Agreement and the Project Agreement and with applicable
laws and regulations and including, among other things, the fiduciary, technical
and operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project,
including the financial management procedures (budgeting, accounting and
internal control, disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual
reports, internal and external audit arrangements procedures and including the
Project specific chart of accounts), procurement procedures, monitoring and
evaluation arrangements, other fiduciary and administrative arrangements, the
selection methods and eligibility criteria for PFIs, Eligible Beneficiaries, and
procedures, transaction, control, and clearance processes and the implementation
mechanisms and necessary terms for PFI Loans, Sub-Loans and Sub-projects,
and templates of PFI Agreements, as the same may be amended from time to
time by agreement with the Bank.
- 20 -
16. 
"Sub-loan" 
means a loan made or proposed to be made, pursuant to the
provisions of a Sub-loan Agreement and in accordance with the criteria and
procedures set forth in Section L.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Project Operational Manual, by a PFI to an Eligible Beneficiary or an MFI out of
the proceeds of a PFI Loan for the purpose of financing a Sub-project.
17. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement entered into between a PFI and an
Eligible Beneficiary or an MFI on the terms and conditions set forth in Section
1.F. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Operational Manual for the
purpose of financing a Sub-loan.
18. 
"Sub-project" means economic activities carried out by an Eligible Beneficiary to
be funded from a Sub-loan in accordance with criteria set forth in the Project
Operational Manual.
19. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 1.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
