OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER A Jot -AZ
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Rail Trade and Transport Facilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 
6( 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 
-
AZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
go'pkC-M 
C 
t..- 
10 
, 2013, between the
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and twenty million
United States Dollars ($220,000,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount. of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Azerbaijan
Railways through the PIU in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Azerbaijan Railways' Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Azerbaijan Railways to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement. 
'
4.02, 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Azerbaijan Railways.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Azerbaijan Railways and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Azerbaijan Railways in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
83 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku AZ1022
Republic of Azerbaijan
Telex: 
Facsimile:
142116 BNKSL 
994412 4044720
994412 4044721
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
Ii
-5-
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
By:
uthor ed Representative
Name: _
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve railway services in Azerbaijan, as well
as the competitiveness, financial sustainability, operating and cost efficiency and capacity
of the Azerbaijan Railways in particular along the transport east-west corridor.
The Project consists of Components 1(b), 1(c), 3 and 4 of the Original Project.
I
-7-
-SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure, or cause the Azerbaijan Railways to ensure the
maintenance of the PIU with staff and resources during the implementation of the
Project, satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
make the proceeds of the Loan available in the amount allocated from
time to time under Categories (1)(b), (1) (c), (3) and (4) on a grant basis
under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the Azerbaijan
Railways, under the terms and conditions approved by the Bank
("Subsidiary Agreement"); and
(b) 
make the proceeds of the Loan available in the amount allocated from
time to time under Category (2) under the Subsidiary Agreement
between the Borrower and the Azerbaijan Railways, under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following: (i)
the term of the Subsidiary Loan shall be twenty three (23) years
including a grace period of eight (8) years; (ii) interest on the amount of
the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall
be at a rate, adjusted every six (6) months, equal to the average rate of
LIBOR plus Variable Spread; (iii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be
denominated in Dollars; (iv) the Front-end Fee payable by the Azerbaijan
Railways shall be equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of
amounts indicated in Category (2); and (v) the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan repayable to the Borrower shall be the equivalent in
Dollars of the amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding
such equivalent to be expressed as of the date or respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account on account of expenditures incurred
by the Azerbaijan Railways for the Components 3 and 4 of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.
-8-
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause the Azerbaijan Railways and the PIU to
ensure, that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the EMP shall be taken
in a timely manner.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and cause
the Azerbaijan Railways and the PIU to prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
the indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Azerbaijan Railways and the PIU to prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
-9-
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set.forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections H and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
.
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for procurement of goods,
works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the
Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional
provisions:
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of
bidder and/or origin of goods;
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works
projects;
(iii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a
shareholding of whatever size shall not be invited to participate
in tenders for the Government unless they are and can be shown
to be legally and financially autonomous and they operate under
commercial law;
-10-
Procurement Method
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the
origin of products or labor;
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for
their obligations;
(vi) 
no "participation fee" shall be required of bidders for the
purchase of bidding documents. The only charge shall be
equivalent to the cost of pr6ducing (copying) the bidding
documents;
(vii) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they
differ substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the
procuring entity, except where the bid prices exceed the
available budget;
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the
Bank;
(ix) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months' duration
shall include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and
(x) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any
modification in the contract scope and conditions during
implementation.
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for procurement of consultants' services for those
contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
-ll-
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Selection through Fixed Budget
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
(e) 
Single-source Selection
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-12-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of VAT)
(1) 
Goods, works, 
211,950,000 
100%
consultants' services
(including audits),
training and
Incremental Operating
Costs for Components
1(b) and 1(c) of the
Project
(2) 
Goods, works, 
7,500,000 
85%
consultants' services
(including audits),
training and incremental
operating costs for
Components 3 and 4 of
the Project
(3) 
Front-end Fee 
550,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) 
Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Caps and Interest Rate 
Section 2.07 (c) of this
Collars 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
December 15, 2017 
2.59%
June 15, 2018 
2.67%
December 15, 2018 
2.75%
June 15, 2019 
2.83%
December 15, 2019 
2.92%
June 15, 2020 
3.00%
December 15, 2020 
3.09%
June 15, 2021 
3.19%
December 15, 2021 
3.28%
June 15, 2022 
3.38%
December 15, 2022 
3.48%
June 15, 2023 
3.59%
December 15, 2023 
3.69%
June 15, 2024 
3.80%
December 15, 2024 
3.92%
June 15, 2025 
4.04%
December 15, 2025 
4.16%
June 15, 2026 
4.28%
December 15, 2026 
4.41%
June 15, 2027 
4.54%
December 15, 2027 
4.68%
June 15, 2028 
4.82%
December 15, 2028 
4.96%
June 15, 2029 
5.11%
December 15, 2029 
5.27%
June 15, 2030 
5.55%
-14-
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4, 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 15 -
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Azerbaijan Railways" means the "Azerbaijan Railways" Closed Joint Stock
Company created pursuant to the Presidential Decree No. 383 dated July 20,
2009, on the establishment of "Azerbaijan Railways" Closed Joint Stock
Company, providing rail transport services to passenger and freight, which is the
Project Implementing Entity and the Subsidiary Borrower.
3. 
"Azerbaijan Railways Legislation" means the charter of the Azerbaijan Railways
approved and registered by the Borrower in accordance with Section 5.01 (d) of
the Original Loan Agreement, including any modifications made pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 383 dated July 20, 2009 on the establishment of
"Azerbaijan Railways" Closed Joint Stock Company.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
6. 
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan, dated May 1, 2007, setting
forth measures to mitigate any adverse impact to the environment.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"Incremental 
Operating Costs" means operating costs required for the
implementation of the Project, including consumable materials and supplies,
communications, mass media and printing services, charges for the opening and
operation of bank accounts required for the implementation of the Project, and
travel and lodging as required for the purpose of the project implementation,
salaries of the PIU staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil
service.
9. 
"Manat" means the currency of the Borrower.
10. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Rail Trade and
Transport Facilitation Project (Loan Number 7509-AZ) between the Borrower
-17-
and the Bank, dated December 18, 2009, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
11. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
12. 
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit of the Project, established through
the Ministerial Order of the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower (Order No.
132/ii) on December 28, 2007, under the Azerbaijan Railways, responsible for
the day-to-day management of the Project implementation and monitoring, or its
successor thereto.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 31, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Azerbaijan Railways.
16. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the implementation manual referred to
in Section 5.01 (a) of the Original Loan Agreement, setting forth the operational
and administrative procedures for the implementation of the Project and
including the Procurement Plan.
17. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make: (a) the
proceeds for Components 1 (b), 1(c), 3 and 4 of the Project available to the
Azerbaijan Railways on a grant basis; and (b) the proceeds for Component (2) of
the Project available to the Azerbaijan Railways on the same lending terms as the
Loan.
18. 
"Subsidiary Borrower" means the Azerbaijan Railways with whom the Borrower
will enter into the Subsidiary Agreement.
19. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means the Subsidiary Loan provided under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
20. 
"Training" means expenses incurred by the Borrower and the Azerbaijan
Railways in connection with carrying out training activities under the Project,
including travel costs and per diem for local trainees and trainers, study tours and
workshops, rental of facilities and equipment and training materials and related
supplies.
