LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
B Y:
Loan Agreement
(Second Institutional Strengthening for Social Inclusion
(Second Institutional, Tax, Administration, Social and Investment)
Development Policy Loan (INSTANSI-DPL 2))
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 20, 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Novemnbr 20, 2013 
2 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated November 20, 2013, entered into between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million United 
States Dollars
(USD400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by
the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of
the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
November 20, 2013 
3 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement
and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the
Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time
to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE IH -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
Program.
November 20, 2013 
4 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: A situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following: the Bank is satisfied with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of
the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework-
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin Raya No. I
Jakarta 1071W,
Indonesia
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 
45799 
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
November 20, 2013 
5 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Robert Pakpahan
Title: 
Expert Staff of Minister
of Finance on State Revenue
With Full Mandate as
DG of Debt Management
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Name: 
05ephvie 
a(lA
Tie: 
'A c 
reC.-1r
November 20, 2013 
6 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions to be taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar 1: Enhancing poverty alleviation and shared prosperity efforts
1. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, has authorized the issuance of
integrated social protection cards (KPS) to fifteen and a half million (15.5 million) poor
and vulnerable beneficiary households identified through the Borrower's national registry
(PPLS11), 
entitling them 
to subsidized 
rice 
allocations 
(RASKIN), 
temporary
unconditional cash transfers (BLSM), and financial assistance for poor students (BSM).
2. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, has issued a Ministry of Home
Affairs Instruction (No. 541/3150/SJ), for local governments to improve the targeting
accuracy of the KPS beneficiary list, through a transparent and participatory community-
based mechanism.
3. 
The Borrower has issued the FY 2014 Financial Notes and Draft Budget, which includes a
report on the 2013 budget allocation for the implementation of temporary safety net
programs, which consist of an unconditional cash transfer program and a subsidized rice
program for fifteen and a half million (15.5 million) poor and vulnerable households
identified through the PPLS 11 to compensate for the fuel price increase of 2013.
4. 
The Borrower has issued a Presidential Decree (No. 37/2012) to provide budget allocation
to increase the adequacy of benefit levels for the BSM program and expand the coverage of
the BSM program using the PPLSI Ito identify beneficiaries of the BSM.
5. 
The Borrower has issued a Presidential Decree (No. 37/2012) to provide budget allocation
to increase the adequacy of benefit levels for the conditional cash transfer (PKH) program
and expand coverage of the PKH using the PPLSI Ito identify beneficiaries of the PKH.
6. 
The Borrower has issued a Presidential Regulation (No. 12/2013) to provide the framework
for the BPJS to implement the national health insurance program.
Pillar 2: Strengthening public financial management for improved service delivery
7. 
The Borrower, in preparation of the 2014 budget, has clearly identified the fiscal changes
that impacted the medium-term expenditure framework and facilitated the reconciliation
with the 2013 forward estimates in the FY2014 Financial Notes and Draft Budget.
8. 
The Borrower has issued a Government Regulation (No. 45/2013) to support enhanced
budget execution procedures.
November 20,2013 
7 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
9. 
The Borrower, through the Directorate General of Taxes, has issued regulations (Minister
of Finance Regulation No. 100/PMK.03/2013 and Director General of Taxes Regulation
No. PER-28/PJ/2013), to establish procedures and an application for VAT refunds for
tourists through a website.
10. 
The Borrower, through the Directorate General of Taxes, has issued a regulation (Director
General of Taxes Regulation No. PER-26/PJ/2013) to streamline procedures for individual
e-filing on simple tax returns and has improved the form for very simple tax returns.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice
to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in United States Dollars)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
400,000,000
.
TOTAL AMOUNT 
400,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the
Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by
the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount
of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment
to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is April 30, 2014.
November 20, 2013 
8 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 January, 2023 
3.46
15 July, 2023 
3.55
15 January, 2024 
3.64
15 July, 2024 
3.73
15 January, 2025 
3.82
15 July, 2025 
3.92
15 January, 2026 
4.01
15 July, 2026 
4.11
15 January, 2027 
4.22
15 July, 2027 
4.32
15 January, 2028 
4.43
15 July, 2028 
4.54
15 January, 2029 
4.65
15 July, 2029 
4.77
15 January, 2030 
4.89
15 July, 2030 
5.01
15 January, 2031 
5.14
15 July, 2031 
5.27
15 January, 2032 
5.40
15 July, 2032 
5.53
15 January, 2033 
5.67
15 July, 2033 
5.92
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
November 20, 2013 
9 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date,
such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to
the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
November 20, 2013 
10 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"BLSM" means Bantuan Langsung Sementara Masyarakat, the Borrower's temporary
unconditional cash transfer program, or any successor thereto.
2. 
"BPJS" means Badan Penyelenggara Jaminan Sosial, the Borrower's agency for the
implementation of social security, or any successor thereto.
3. 
"BSM" means Bantuan Siswa Miskin, the Borrower's financial assistance for students from
poor households, or any successor thereto.
4. 
"Directorate General of Taxes" means the Directorate General of Taxes of the Ministry of
Finance, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed or
agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed to
finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths'
or silversmiths' wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
November 20, 2013 
11 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices
when they occur.
6. 
"Financial Notes and Draft Budget" means the annual financial notes and draft budget of the
Borrower, which is presented by the President to the Borrower's parliament for approval.
7. 
"FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year, ending on December 31 of each year.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
9. 
"Government Regulation" means Peraturan Pemerintah, a regulation of the government of
the Borrower.
10. 
"KPS" means Kartu Perlindungan Sosial, the Borrower's integrated social protection card.
11. 
"Ministry of Home Affairs" means the Borrower's Ministry bf Home Affairs, or any
successor thereto.
12. 
"PKH" means Program Keluarga Harapan, the Borrower's conditional cash transfer
program for poor families as said program is referred to in the Borrower's Presidential
Regulation No. 29 of 2011 (as updated to the date of this Agreement), or any successor
thereto.
13. 
"PPLSI 1" means Pendataan Program Pelayanan Sosial tahn 2011, the Borrower's 2011
social services data collection program, or any successor thereto.
14. 
"President" means the Borrower's President, the head of government, or any successor
thereto.
15. 
"Presidential Decree" means Keputusan Presiden, a decree issued by the Borrower's
President.
November 20, 2013 
12 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
16. 
"Presidential Regulation" means Peraturan Presiden, a regulation issued by the Borrower's
President.
17. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth
and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated
September 30, 2013 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the
Program during its execution.
18. 
"RASKIN" means Beras untuk Rakyat Miskin, the Borrower's rice for the poor program or
any successor thereto.
19. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
20. 
"VAT" means value added tax.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
I. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statement; Audit) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article V are
renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two
years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine such records."
November 20, 2013 
13 of 13 
LOAN NUMBER 8304-ID
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evahiation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the execution of the Program,
the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to the
Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified to
read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General Conditions
are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
