OFFICIAL
WOCUMENTSi
LOAN NUMBER 8264-TR
Loan Agreement
(Competitiveness and Savings Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
u, 
2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8264-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
3.%Atle- 3s 
0 
, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macro-economic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred twenty-four million one hundred
thousand Euros (EUR 624,100,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April I and October I in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the
3
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Undersecretary of Treasury.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari No. 36
Emek - Ankara
Turkey
Facsimile:
(312) 204-7366
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
4
AGREED at Ankara, Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
ren DJet
Acting Dirertn.- can 
a
Title: _______________
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Aut&orized Representative
Name:
Title:
5
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower has issued critical Commercial Code Secondary Regulations to implement
the Commercial Code, including legislation on the trade registry system, scope of independent
audits, minimum requirements for annual activity reports, rules and procedures for undertaking
general assembly meetings, and electronic general assembly system.
2. 
The Borrower has made progress in improving the investment climate in the country,
through issuance of critical secondary legislation to ensure full implementation of the Civil
Procedure Law, including publication in the Official Gazette on April 3, 2012, No. 28253 of the
Regulation on Civil Procedures Law, which establishes procedures for carrying out preliminary
investigations before court hearings, thereby speeding up court proceedings; and publication in
the Official Gazette dated April 4, 2012, No. 28254 of a circular titled "Customs and Trade
Ministry Regulation on Principles for Applications on Trade Registry, Chamber of Commerce
Commodity Exchanges Registry, and Tradesmen and Craftsmen Registry" to simplify the
registration of businesses.
3. 
The Borrower has taken further actions to reduce informal employment through, inter
alia, (a) increases in the number of social security institution auditors to over 1,350 auditors in
December 2012, and (b) use of risk-based auditing, including the establishment in May 2012 of
the Risk Analysis Unit within the Borrower's Social Security Institution.
4. 
The Borrower published in the Official Gazette on June 29, 2012, No. 28338, Law
No. 6327 amending the Private Pension Law No. 4632, which aims to improve incentives for
voluntary retirement savings, thus making savings longer term and which amendment law came
into effect on January 1, 2013, following the issuance of Pension Implementing Regulations by
the Undersecretariat of Treasury.
5. 
The Borrower published in the Official Gazette on December 30, 2012, No. 28513,
Capital Markets Law No. 6362, which aims to make capital markets deeper, more competitive
and transparent.
6. 
The Borrower published in the Official Gazette on December 13, 2012, No. 28496,
Enactment of a Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies Law No. 6361, which aims to
contribute to the growth of the non-bank financial institutions sector and to improve access to
finance, especially for small and medium enterprises.
6
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of this Section.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may
make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Euro)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
624,100,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
624,100,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received
payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to finance
Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan
7
was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the
Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date.
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014.
8
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 1 and October 1
Beginning April 1, 2017 
3.03%
through October 1, 2032
On April 1, 2033 
3.04%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
9
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
10
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Civil Procedure Law" means the Borrower's Civil Procedure Code No. 6100 published
in the Official Gazette on February 4, 2011.
2. 
"Commercial Code" means the Borrower's Commercial Code No. 6102 published in the
Official Gazette on February 14, 2011, and which was amended by Law No. 6335
published in the Official Gazette on June 30, 2012, and became effective on July 1, 2012.
3. 
"Commercial Code Secondary Regulations" means, collectively, the following:
(a) 
Trade Registry Regulation published in the Official Gazette on January 27, 2013,
No. 28541.
(b) 
Council of Ministers Decree on Scope of the Independent Audit published in
Official Gazette on January 23, 2013, No. 28537.
(c) 
Regulation on minimum requirements for annual activity reports was published
in the Official Gazette on August 28, 2012, No. 28395.
(d) 
The Regulation on Rules and Procedures of Joint Stock Companies' General
Assembly and the Regulation on Electronic General Assembly System in Joint
Stock Companies published in the Official Gazette on November 28, 2012,
No. 28481 and on August 28, 2012, No. 28395, respectively.
4. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
11
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that an event has
occurred under Section 7.03(c) of the General Conditions.
5. 
"General 
Conditions" means 
the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"Pension Implementing Regulations" means, collectively, the following:
(a) 
Regulation on Private Pension System published in the Official Gazette on
November 9, 2012, No. 28462.
(b) 
Regulation amending the regulation on Private Pension Intermediaries published
in the Official Gazette on December 29, 2012, No. 28512.
(c) 
Regulation on State Matching in Private Pension System published in the Official
Gazette on December 29, 2012, No. 28512.
12
(d) 
Regulation amending the Regulation 
on the Transfers from Associations,
Foundations and other Agencies to Private Pension System and Annual Income
Insurance published in the Official Gazette on December 29, 2012, No. 28512.
(e) 
Regulation amending the Regulation on the Establishment and Operating
Principles of Private Pension Companies published in the Official Gazette on
December 29, 2012, No. 28512.
7. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance
competitiveness and increase domestic savings and set forth or referred to in the letter
dated April 26, 2013, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
8. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article 1I are renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
13
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
.. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
14
