DOCUMENTS
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
-(0n04 4
X4*00
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address: INDEVAS
&?&At 
,-2013
His Excellency
Carlos Enrique Cdceres Chavez
Ministro de Hacienda
Ministerio de Hacienda
Boulevar de los H6roes No. 1231, San Salvador
Rep6blica de El Salvador
Re: Republic of El Salvador: Loan No. 7811-SV (Income Support and Employability
Project) - Third Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement entered into between the Republic of El Salvador (the
"Borrower") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") dated July 19,
2010 as amended on December 17, 2010, and March 2, 2012 (the "Loan Agreement"). In this
Amendment Letter, all the terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the same meaning as therein set
forth.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to your letter dated April 30, 2013 requesting to
modify some parts of the Loan Agreement to reflect: (i) a new description of Project components; (ii) the
reallocation of funds; and (iii) the modification of implementation arrangements to assign to MTPS the
fiduciary responsibilities under Part B of the Project, the Bank hereby proposes to amend the Loan
Agreement as follows:
1. 
Article 3.01 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, under the overall coordination of STP, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out: (i) through
MTPS, Part B of the Project; and (ii) through STP, Part C of the Project; and (b) cause
FISDL, with the assistance of Eligible Municipalities, to carry out: (i) Parts A.1, A.3, and
A.4 of the Project; and (ii) Part A.2 with the participation of INSAFORP, all in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions."
2. 
Part B.3 of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted.
3. 
Section I.A. 1.(a) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
follows:
"1. 
(a) For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall enter
into an agreement (the Implementation Agreement) with FISDL under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include, inter alia,
those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
4. 
Part D of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
-2-
"D. 
Safeguards
The Borrower through STP and MTPS, shall ensure, and cause FISDL to ensure, that any
activities under the Project do not involve any Resettlement, the use of pesticides or other
agricultural chemicals listed in the Project Operational Manual, and/or degrade natural
habitats, or cause deforestation."
4. 
Section II.B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
follows:
"B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, through STP and MTPS, and shall cause FISDL
and INSAFORP to maintain, a financial management system in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall,
through STP and MTPS, and shall cause FISDL to, prepare as part of the Project Report,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering a calendar semester, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower, through STP, shall furnish to the
Bank consolidated interim reports (including the interim financial reports prepared by:
FISDL for Part A, MTPS for Part B and STP for Part C of the Project, respectively), not
later than forty five days after the end of each semester.
3. 
The Borrower, through STP and MTPS, shall, and shall cause FISDL to, have its
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
5. 
The table in section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Cate2ory 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
PATI Grants and 
28,000,000 
100%
Management Expenses
under Part A.1 of the
Project
(2) 
Goods, Non-Consultant 
6,085,000 
100%
Services, consultants'
services, Operating
Costs, and Training
under Part A of the
Project
-3-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(3) 
Outputs under Part A.2 
6,575,000 
70% of the Unit Costs of the
of the Project 
Outputs as set forth in the Project
Operational Manual
(4) 
Goods, Non-Consultant 
6,700,000 
100%
Services, consultants'
services, Operating
Costs, and Training
under Part B of the
Project
(5) 
Goods, Non-Consultant 
2,515,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services, Operating
Costs, and Training
under Part C of the
Project
(6) 
Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(7) 
Unallocated 
Intentionally left blank 
Intentionally left blank
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000000
6. 
Section A of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
follows:
"A 
the obligation of the Borrower:
(a) 
through MoF, to promptly disburse to FISDL proceeds of the Loan to
finance the carrying out of Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency;
(b) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and
-4-
(c) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce
the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof unless
previously agreed by the Bank;"
7. 
Section C.(a) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
follows:
"(a) 
to carry out Parts A. 1, A.3, and A.4 of the Project, and Part A.2 of the Project
with the participation of INSAFORP (in accordance with the INSAFORP Agreement);"
8. 
Section C.(e) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted (as a result, the remaining
sections are renumbered).
9. 
Section C.(f) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, as renumbered per section 8 of this
Agreement, is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"(f) 
to ensure that any activity under Part A of the Project does not involve any
Resettlement, the use of pesticides or other agricultural chemicals listed in the Project
Operational Manual, and/or degrade natural habitats, or cause deforestation."
10. 
The following definitions on section I of the Appendix to the Loan Agreement are hereby
amended to read in their entirety as follows:
" "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A. I of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan available to FISDL for the implementation of Part A of the Project."
" "Procurement Plan" means the procurement plan prepared by FISDL for Part A of the
Project, and the procurement plan prepared by STP for Part C of the Project, both dated
October 18, 2009; and the procurement plan prepared by MTPS for Part B of the Project,
dated August 1, 2013, all referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs."
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating the form of
confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided to you and returning one countersigned
original to us. Thereafter, all the provisions of the Loan Agreement, except as amended through this
Amendment Letter, shall remain in full force and effect.
The provisions set forth in this Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of the
countersignature upon compliance by the Recipient of the following conditions: (i) one fully executed
original of this Amendment Letter has been delivered to the Bank; (ii) evidence, acceptable to the Bank,
that an amendment to the Implementation Agreement has been entered into by the parties thereto and is in
full effect and a copy of such amendment has been delivered to the Bank
-5-
Please also note that the restructuring paper dated July 30, 2013 will be disclosed on the Bank's
external website.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
6"Felipe Ja al
Directo
Central America
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF EL S 
VADOR 
o 
4
Name:WOIOI-MCED
Title:
Date: 
28 do 
agasstc de 201
