OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8283-JO
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Project to Assist Jordan Partially Mitigate Impact of Syrian Conflict)
between
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
8 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8283-JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
L 
a 
, 
2013, 
between 
HASHEMITE
KINGDOM 
OF 
JORDAN 
'Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million United States Dollars
($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall, through MoF, carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister in charge of planning and international
cooperation.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Post office Box 555
Amman, 11118
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Facsimile:
4649341-4642247
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Amman, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, as of the day and year first
above written.
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: b*r. 
F6rA 4 1
Title:. 
1 C ' I ( c 
P ~ r n ~ c a
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Authorized Rep 
entative
Name: 
(1QXVx& 
a
Title: 
( Q-& 
C
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to help the Borrower maintain access to essential
healthcare services and basic household needs for the Jordanian population affected by the large
and increasing influx of Syrian refugees.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Maintaining Access to Essential Healthcare Services
1. 
Carrying out a program of activities designed to sustain provision of basic health services
to Beneficiaries; such program to include acquisition of Eligible Vaccines and Drugs for
Beneficiaries and health facilities respectively, as provided for in the Rational Drug List.
2. 
Financing of medical treatments' costs incurred by Jordanian patients referred to
Non-MOH Facilities.
Part B. 
Supporting Household Basic Needs
Carrying out a program of activities designed to support the provision of basic household
commodities by the Borrower through the financing of Bread and LPG Cylinders
Subsidies.
Part C. 
Project Monitoring, Auditing and Verification
Support to the Borrower in the areas of Project monitoring, verification and auditing.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower shall vest overall implementation of the Project in its MoF.
2. 
Notwithstanding Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain,
throughout project implementation period, JPD with a mandate, procedures, staffing and
resources satisfactory to the Bank to be responsible for procurement under Part A. 1 of the
Project.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
1. 
All contracts procured in accordance with Section III.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
shall be carried out in accordance with Modified Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project (except for contracts specified in I above) is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) after the end of each quarter, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. The audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of the Project. The audited Financial Statements for
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than three months after the end of
such period.
-7-
4. 
The Borrower shall recruit, not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, (a) the
external auditor referred to in Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions in accordance
with Section III of Schedule 2 of this Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; said external auditor to further perform audits of payments made
prior to this date but on or after June 30, 2012, for Eligible Expenditures; and (b) an
external firm, whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable
to the Bank, to perform financial and technical audits referred to in Section V.1 of this
Agreement.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods. All goods (except goods under Part A. 1 of the Project for an amount equal to or
less than $5,000,000) and non-consulting services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with
the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods.
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods (except goods under Part A. I of the Project for an amount equal to or less
than $5,000,000) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following methods, other than
International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods and non-
consulting services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping;
and (b) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Procurement of Goods under Part A.1 of the Project for an amount equal or lesser
than $5,000,000. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section III.B. 1 and Section III.B.2 of
this Agreement, all goods required under Part A. 1 of the Project for contracts of an
amount equal or less than $5,000,000 and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured in accordance with JPD Procurement Procedures, subject to the
following additional provision namely that, bidding opportunities for contracts above
$500,000 shall be advertised in a timely manner through the United Nations
Development Business (UNDB) website and the JPD website.
-8-
D. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Least Cost Selection; (b) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualification; (c) Single-
source Selection of consulting firms; and (d) Single-source procedures for the Selection
of Individual Consultants.
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-9-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Eligible Vaccines and 
149,625,000 
100%
Medicines, Medical
treatments' costs,
Bread and LPG
Cylinders Subsidies,
Consultants' Services
(including audits) for
the Project
Amount payable pursuant to
(2) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions.
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed sixty million United States Dollars ($60,000,000 million)
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
June 30, 2012, for Eligible Expenditures under Part A.1 and Part B of the Project.
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2014.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure, prior to making any payments for medical treatments' costs
under Part A.2 of the Project that said medical treatments' costs have been technically
and financially audited by an external firm.
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15, 
2.44%
Beginning May 15, 2018
through November 15, 2037
On May 15, 2038 
2.40%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
- 11 -
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 12 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiaries" means residents in the Borrower's territory.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
5. 
"Eligible Vaccines and Drugs" means vaccines and drugs provided for in the Rational
Drug List.
6. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the 
"International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
7. 
"Joint Procurement Department" or "JPD" means the joint procurement department
created by the Borrower's Law n. 91 of 2002 on Medicine and Medical Supplies, aimed
at improving the efficiency, economy and transparency of pharmaceutical procurement in
the Borrower's territory, as amended from time to time.
8. 
"Jordan Food and Drug Administration" means the Borrower's independent public
administration created by Law n. 31 of 2003 responsible for all related national food and
drugs matters.
9. 
"JPD Procurement Procedures" means the procurement procedures applicable by JPD as
provided for under the Borrower's Law n. 91 of 2002.
10. 
"Kg" means Kilograms.
11. 
"Non-MoH Facilities" means healthcare facilities, including hospitals not administered
by the MoH.
12. 
"Modified Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011, with the modifications
set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's ministry in charge of finance.
14. 
"MoH" means the Borrower's ministry in charge of health.
- 13 -
15. 
"Rational Drug List" means the list of drugs issued by the Jordan Food and Drug
Administration as updated from time to time.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June
5, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Bread and LPG Cylinders Subsidies" means the difference between the total cost and
selling price of flour and 12.5 Kg LPG Cylinder, respectively.
Section II. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
1. 
Paragraph 9 shall be amended by inserting the following new Paragraph 9(a) and re-
lettered following paragraphs:
"(a) take all appropriate measures to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with these Guidelines."
2. 
Paragraph 9(d) is deleted in their entirety.
3. 
Paragraph 9(e) is modified to read:
"(i) take timely and appropriate action to investigate all credible and material allegations
or other indications of fraud and corruption; (ii) promptly, upon the completion of any
such investigation, report to the Bank the findings thereof, including making available all
documentary and other evidence arising therefrom, and allow the Bank to review relevant
books and records and to meet relevant persons; and (iii) if the Borrower or the Bank
determines that any person or entity has engaged in fraud or corruption in connection
with the Project, take timely and appropriate action, in accordance with the Borrower's
laws and regulations and satisfactory to the Bank, to remedy or otherwise address the
situation and prevent its recurrence; and".
4. 
Paragraph 9(g) is hereby added after Paragraph 9(f) and reads as follows:
"ensure that any person or entity debarred or suspended by the Bank is not awarded a
contract under or otherwise allowed to participate in the Project during the period of such
debarment or suspension."
5. 
Paragraph 10 is deleted in its entirety.
