OFFIC"AL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8276 - BR
Loan Agreement
(Rio Grande do Norte Regional Development and Governance Project - Projeto
Integrado de Desenvolvimento Sustentdvel do Rio Grande do Norte - RN Sustentdvel)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
Dated 
, 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Or428 
, 2013, between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"), and the STATE
OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE ("Borrower"). The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred and sixty million
Dollars ($360,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Borrower's Secretary of Planning and Finance.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through SEPLAN and its PMU,
with the assistance of:
-2-
(a) 
SAPE, SETHAS, SEDEC, SETUR and DER with respect to Part 1 of the
Project;
(b) 
SESAP with respect to Part 2(a) of the Project;
(c) 
SEEC with respect to Part 2(b) of the Project;
(d) 
SESED with respect to Part 2(c) of the Project; and
(e) 
SEARH with respect to Part 3(c) of the Project.
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has
been duly registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on December 25, 2014.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Governor.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretariat of Planning and Finance - Secretaria de Estado do
Planejamento e das Finanqas
Centro Administrativo do Estado
BR 101 - km 0 - Lagoa Nova
59090-964 - Natal - RN
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-84) 3232-1911
-3-
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Intemacionais do
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Orcamento e Gestdo
Esplanada dos Minist6rios, Bloco "K" - 50 andar
70040-906 Brasilia, DF
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at $j;a4< 
/-Qdf z 
/JWQ 
2 
O 
as of the day
and year first above written'.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
/#i~ 
6/
Authorized Representative
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
By
Authorized Representative
-4-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's efforts to: 
(i) increase food
security and access to productive infrastructure and markets for family agriculture;
(ii) improve the quality of, and access to, health, education and public security services;
and (iii) improve systems for public expenditures, human resources and physical asset
management in the context of a results-based management approach.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Sustainable Regional Development
(a) 
Strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to implement its Sustainable
Regional Development Strategy through: (i) the provision of support to
SAPE, SETHAS, 
SETUR, SEDEC and DER for the carrying out of
strategic studies and diagnostics to identify environmental and socio-
economic viability of potential Subproject investments; (ii) the provision
of support to SAPE and SETHAS for the preparation, implementation
and supervision of Business Plans; and (iii) based on the results of the
diagnostics and feasibility studies carried out under (i) above, the
provision of support to SAPE, SETHAS, SETUR, SEDEC and DER for
strategic investments in the expansion, improvement and integration of
regional 
productive 
infrastructures, 
including, 
inter alia: APL
innovation, technology and trade centers, aquaculture stations, phyto-
sanitary inspection units, physical facilities and equipment for production
of seedlings and breeding animals, road upgrading and rehabilitation, and
tourism infrastructure.
(b) 
Provision of support to POs, SOs and NSOs for the carrying out of:
(i) Productive 
Subprojects; 
(ii) 
Socio-Economic 
Infrastructures
Subprojects; and (iii) Social and Environmental Subprojects.
Part 2: Improving Public Services
(a) 
Provision of support to SESAP in the implementation of strategic
priorities in the health sector, including:
(i) 
the reduction of maternal and infant mortality rates, through:
(A) the refurbishing and provision of the necessary equipment
for selected maternity hospitals; 
(B) the preparation and
implementation of a continuous training program for primary
care professionals (doctors and nurses) in prenatal care with
emphasis on risk classification, primary health care access and
-5-
postpartum/newborn care; (C) the construction of an infant and
maternal hospital in Mossor6; (D) the establishment of a system
of human milk banks; and (E) the implementation of a risk
classification system to monitor high risk infants from birth to 12
months of age.
(ii) 
The increased availability of early detection and quality
treatment for breast and cervical cancer patients, through: (A) the
refurbishing and provision of the necessary equipment for the
referral center for diagnosis on cancer diseases; (B) the
preparation and implementation of continuous educational
programs for health professionals and managers; (C) the
development of telemedicine programs for disease diagnosis;
(D) the construction of new and renovation of existing,
laboratories for cancer testing and diagnosis, as well as the
provision of the necessary equipment; and (E) the preparation
and 
implementation 
of continuous 
professional 
training
programs focused on cancer diseases.
(iii) 
The establishment of a regionalized emergency health service
network 
in the Borrower's 
territory, 
through: 
(A) 
the
improvement of selected emergency medical facilities and
services; and (B) the implementation of evidence-based clinical
protocols and pathways for emergency health services.
(b) 
Promotion of basic education quality improvement and regional
development for the education sector in the Borrower's territory,
through:
(i) 
The provision of support to SEEC for: (A) the development of
instruments and action plans to support regional development
activities, including, inter alia, the construction, refurbishing and
equipment of selected rural and urban schools, the provision of
literacy and technical-vocational training programs for youth and
adults and the provision of training and didactic materials for
accessing the PNAE; and (B) the development of new curricula
and programs for each level of education in the Borrower's
public schools; 
(C) the development of new pedagogical
materials and training programs for teachers to support the
implementation of the new curricula referred in (B) above; (D)
the establishment of a basic education observatory (Observatdrio
da Vida do Estudante da Educaqdo Bdsica) to monitor school
quality, together with an education evaluation system to asses
students and school's performance; (E) the preparation and
implementation of a manual of minimum operational standards
-6-
for all the Borrower's public schools; and (F) the preparation and
implementation of training and monitoring systems to support
improvements in the educational system; and
(ii) 
The provision of support to School Associations for: (A) the
design and implementation of Schools Development Plans; and
(B) the implementation of School Subprojects.
(c) 
Provision of support to SESED for the integration of its management
processes, the enhancing of its capacity to provide citizen security and
programs focused on violence prevention and education, as well as the
strengthening of public security information systems, through, inter alia:
(i) the investment in technology to strengthen SESED's public security
management capacity; (ii) the investment in technologies to improve
CIOSP's capacity; and (iii) investment in educational materials,
equipment and technical assistance on strategic communications to
support specific ongoing drug and violence prevention efforts, and the
coordination mechanism that support victims of violence against women,
the elderly and minorities.
Part 3: Public Sector Management
(a) 
Provision of support to SEPLAN for, inter alia: (i) the preparation and
implementation of a result-oriented management proposal, comprising
staff training; 
(ii) the design and implementation of a web-based
dashboard hall and a bureau of projects to monitor the management of
the Borrower's strategic programs and projects; (iii) the development of
the Project management, monitoring and evaluation system and related
mechanisms; (iv) the development 
and implementation of ICT
technology; and (v) the development of a monitoring and information
system and mechanisms for the Borrower's social protection programs.
(b) 
Provision of support to SEPLAN for, inter alia: (i) the identification and
revision of procedures for SEEC, SESAP and SESED; (ii) the carrying
out of a diagnosis of the Borrower's secretariats and public agencies to
identify possible dysfunctional activities and proposing corrective
measures; and (iii) the preparation of a non-Project package of sectoral
investments aimed at improving key infrastructure and management
systems and mechanisms.
(c) 
Provision of support to SEARH for the strengthening of the Borrower's
workforce by focusing on attracting and retaining professional personnel,
through: 
(i) the implementation of management and payroll auditing
modules, including the planning of human resources and the design of a
result-oriented management model; (ii) implementation of an integrated
4I 
-7-
assets management system; (iii) modernization of the Borrower's
archives; (iv) improvement of the Borrower's ICT INFOVIAS to address
deficiencies in territorial connectivity; and (v) the provision of training
for public servants, consultants and project managers directly involved in
targeting 
strategic 
project 
implementation, 
including 
project
management, financial management, procurement, IT, and monitoring
and evaluation methodology and systems.
-8-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
No later than thirty days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish,
and thereafter operate and maintain during the implementation of the Project, a
Project Management Committee chaired by SEPLAN's secretary, and composed
by representatives from key secretariats and organizations, as defined in the
Operational Manual, responsible for providing general oversight and guidance on
the strategic and multisectoral aspects of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
operate and maintain, until the completion of the Project, a unit within
SEPLAN (the PMU), 
responsible for the overall 
management,
coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(b) 
operate and maintain, until the completion of the Project, sectoral units
(the UES) within SAPE, SETHAS, SESAP, SESED, SEDEC, SEEC,
SEARH, SETUR and DER responsible for the management, and
implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Project
activities within their respective sectors; and
(c) 
cause the PMU and each of the UES to maintain, until completion of the
Project, a structure, responsibilities, and key staff with functions,
experience, responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank as
described in the Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank annual operating plans,
satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities to be carried out during
the year following the date of presentation of each such plan, together with the
respective sources of funding, by December 5 of each year during Project
implementation; (b) furnish to the Bank the approved annual operating plans
(including the respective sources of funding) referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each year in question, not later than 30 days after the publication of
the Borrower's annual budget by its Legislative Assembly (Assemblia
Legislativa); and (c) thereafter, implement each of said plans in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
-9-
4. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the respective POs, SOs and NSOs to, carry
out the Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational Manual),
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules, methods, guidelines,
standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of the relevant Parts of
the Project, including, inter alia, the following: (a) the detailed description of
Project implementation activities and the detailed institutional arrangements of
the Project; (b) criteria and methods for the selection of POs, SOs and NSOs;
(c) detailed social, economic, financial, technical and environmental criteria for
the evaluation and ranking for selecting Subprojects, including a negative list of
environmentally 
sensitive investments 
ineligible 
for financing under a
Subproject: (d) guidelines for the adoption of an integrated pest management
approach in all applicable activities to be developed under the Project;
(e) guidelines to follow in case of unexpected findings of objects with possible
cultural or archeological value; (f) a model form of a Subproject Agreement;
(g) the Project 
administrative, 
accounting, 
auditing, 
reporting, financial
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement
procedures; (h) the monitoring indicators for the Project; and (i) the ESMF, RPF,
and IPPF. In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict
with this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall, and shall cause POs, SOs and NSOs to, ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.
C. 
Subprojects
For the purposes of carrying out Parts 1(b) and 2(b)(ii) of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(a) 
after having selected a Subproject in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, enter into an agreement
with the Eligible Implementer, ("Subproject Agreement"), under terms
and conditions approved by the Bank and included in the Operational
Manual, for the provision of Matching Grants for the implementation of
said Subproject;
(b) 
ensure that each Subproject Agreement is prepared based on the model
form approved by the Bank and included in the Operational Manual, in
which the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests
and those of the Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the
right of the Eligible Implementer to use the proceeds of the Matching
Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Matching
Grant then withdrawn, upon the Eligible Implementer's failure to
- 10 -
perform any of its obligations under the Subproject Agreement; and
(ii) require each Eligible Implementer to: (A) carry out its pertinent
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, economic, environmental, 
educational and social
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank (as the case may be),
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the
Borrower, the ESMF, the RPF and the IPPF; (B) provide, promptly as
needed, the resources required for the carrying out of the Subproject;
(C) (1) procure the goods, works, non-consulting 
services and
consultants' services to be financed out of the Matching Grant in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; and (2) have the
procurement of those goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants' services audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and
furnish the resulting audit report to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each one fiscal year of the Borrower; (D) maintain
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance
with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the pertinent
Subproject and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain a
simplified financial management system and records in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank for
community driven initiatives, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Subproject; and
(2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have the resulting financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower
and the Bank; (F) enable PMU and the Bank to inspect the pertinent
Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(G) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing; and
(c) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Subproject
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement
or any provisions thereof.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the ESMF
(including provisions for natural habitats, forests, medical waste management
and pest management); (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said ESMF for
environmental 
screening, 
evaluation, implementation and monitoring 
of
Subprojects, including the procedures for the preparation of environmental
management plans, if applicable; and (c) implement and/or cause to be
implemented, the pertinent environmental management plan, in accordance with
its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF)
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the IPPF; (b)
adopt the procedures detailed in said IPPF for screening, evaluation,
implementation, and monitoring of Subprojects; (c) implement and/or cause to be
implemented, the pertinent Indigenous Peoples development plan, in accordance
with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the
Resettlement Policy Framework; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said
Resettlement Framework 
for screening, 
evaluation, implementation 
and
monitoring of Subprojects; and (c) implement and/or cause to be implemented,
the pertinent resettlement action plan or abbreviated plan (for cases where 200 or
less persons are affected, or where they are not physically relocated or would lose
10% or less of productive assets), as the case may be, all in accordance with its
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies
related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be satisfactory
to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the
requirements of the bank's Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to the
advice conveyed through such consultancies and technical assistance.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
-12-
Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators acceptable to the Bank
and set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and Non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding methods described in Sections II and III of
the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
-13-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
Non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
(a)National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as "pregdo
eletr6nico", as provided in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July 17,
2002 under any e-procurement system acceptable to the Bank), subject to
the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents
shall be acceptable to the Bank
(b) Shopping ( including the method known as "pregdo eletr6nico", as
provided in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002 under any e-
procurement system acceptable to the Bank)
(c) Framework Agreements
(d) Direct Contracting
(e) Community Participation in Procurement procedures, as set forth in the
Operational Manual
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality-and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
-14-
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.1 to 5.5 of the Consultants Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Single Source Selection
(f) Fixed- Cost Selection
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the selection of Individual Consultants set forth
in paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-15-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures
Cate2ory 
(expressed in USD) 
to be financed
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Goods, works, Non- 
91,076,000 
Up to 100% of the
consulting Services, and 
amount disbursed under
consultants' services 
a Matching Grant
required for Subprojects
(2) Goods, works, consultants' 
268,024,000
services, non-consulting
services, Operating Costs 
100%
and Training
(3) Front-end Fee 
900,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
360,000,000
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental recurrent
costs (which would not have been incurred absent the Project), related to
Project technical and administrative management monitoring and
supervision 
required 
under 
the 
Project, 
including 
inter alia,
administrative and operational support staff, office materials, supplies,
travel costs (including accommodations, transportation costs and per
diem), printing services, communication costs, utilities, maintenance of
office equipment and facilities, vehicle operation and maintenance costs,
costs associated with the deployment of, updates and upgrades to the
financial management system, and logistics services; and
(b) 
the term "Training" 
means expenditures 
(other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the
carrying out of training, seminars, and workshops, including the
reasonable travel costs (e.g. accommodations, transportation costs and
per diem) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), catering, rental of
-16-
training facilities and equipment, training enrollment fees, logistics and
printing services, as well as training materials needed under the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $72,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 7, 2012,
for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2), but in no case more
than one year prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2019. The Bank will only grant an extension of
the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning 
December 
15, 
2%
2018
through June 15, 2043
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-18-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"APL" means Arranjos Produtivos Locais, local productive value chains located
in the Borrower's territory.
3. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means 
the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Business Plan" means a long-term, voluntary, commercial relationship between
any given PO and SAPE, aimed at meeting market demands, and based on
arrangements to carry out jointly market-oriented productive investments, which
plans meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"CIOSP" means Centro Integrado de OperaVies de Seguranga Pz blica, the
Borrower's Centre for Public Security Integrated Operations.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8. 
"DER" means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado do Rio Grande
do Norte, the Borrower's Department of Roads.
9. 
"Eligible Implementers" means: (i) for Productive Subprojects: POs; (ii) for
Social and Environmental Subprojects: POs, SOs and/or NSOs; (iii) for
Socioeconomic Infrastructure Subprojects: SOs and NSOs; and (iv) for School
Subprojects: School Associations.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF" means the
Borrower's framework dated February 8, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, as
published and available to the public on the website www.seplan.m.gov.br on
February 21, 2013, which contains the environmental protection measures in
respect of the Project, including: (i) measures for chance findings of cultural
property; (ii) protection of natural habitats, pest management and medical waste
-20-
management; (iii) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental
conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from
the carrying out of the Project (including Subprojects); (iv) guidelines for the
carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation of environmental
management plans, when applicable; (v) the recommendation of mitigation
measures for each negative impact identified; and (vi) measures for enhancing
each identified positive impact, as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the Bank's prior approval.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
12. 
"ICT" means Information and Communication Technology.
13. 
"ICT INFOVIAS" means the Borrower's information and communication
technology connectivity systems and networks.
14. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means the indigenous peoples recognized as such by the
Guarantor's Fundaqdo Nacional do Indio, the National Indian Foundation
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's Decree
No. 4645, dated March 25, 2003, as eligible to benefit from the constitutional and
other legal protection as indigenous peoples.
15. 
"Indigenous Peoples' Planning Framework or IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework dated February 8, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, published and
available to the public on the website www.seplan.m.gov.br on February 14,
2013, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact
on Indigenous Peoples as a result of any activity carried out under the Project
(including Subprojects) and to ensure that they benefit from the Project,
including procedures for the preparation and implementation of the pertinent
Indigenous Peoples development plans, as said framework may be amended from
time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
16. 
"Matching Grants" means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan from the
Borrower to an Eligible Implementer for the partial financing of an eligible
Subproject, subject to the specific terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual and in the relevant Subproject Agreement.
17. 
"Non-consulting Services" means the costs of services which are of non-
intellectual nature and that can be procured on the basis of performance of
measurable 
physical 
outputs, 
including 
unskilled-labor 
communications
campaigns, production of videos, and installation of equipment.
18. 
"NSO" means a network of social organizations, or a group of SOs organized
into a legally established association which, upon meeting the criteria set forth in
-21 -
the Operational Manual, is eligible to receive a Matching Grant for carrying out
Socioeconomic 
Infrastructure 
Subprojects 
or 
Social 
and Environmental
Subprojects.
19. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated May 10, 2013, for the
operation of the Project referred to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
20. 
"PMU" means Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto, the Borrower's technical
unit within SEPLAN, created through Decree No. 22.539 of December 30, 2011,
and referred to in Section I.A.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"PNAE" means Programa Nacional de Alimentaqdo Escolar, the Guarantor's
National School Meals Program created pursuant the Guarantor's 
Law
No. 11.947 dated June 16, 2009.
22. 
"PO" means a rural producer-based organization vested with legal personality
and/or a group of rural citizens organized into a legally established private
association, all of which, upon meeting the criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual, is eligible to receive a Matching Grant on behalf of its members, for the
carrying out of a Productive Subproject or a Social and Environmental
Subproject.
23. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
24. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 10, 2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
25. 
"Productive Subproject" means any eligible productive and market-oriented
investment, identified and prioritized in a Business Plan as approved by the
Borrower in accordance with relevant provisions of the Operational Manual, and
to be partly financed with a Matching Grant under the pertinent Subproject
Agreement for the activities set forth in Part 1(b) of the Project and to be carried
out by a PO.
26. 
"Project 
Management 
Committee" means the committee referred to in
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework or RPF" means the document prepared by the
Borrower dated February 8, 2013, published and available to the public on the
website www.seplan.m.gov.br 
on February 
14, 
2013, outlining general
-22-
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
involuntary resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for the
preparation and implementation of resettlement plans, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
28. 
"SAPE" means Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura, da Pecudria e da Pesca, the
Borrower's Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, and any
successor thereof.
29. 
"Schools 
Associations" 
means 
Caixa Escolar, non-profit 
organizations
established at school and municipal level for the purposes of administering
school finances, including the acquisition and contracting of services previously
included in each of the school's annual plan, for the improvement and
maintenance of its facilities.
30. 
"School Development Plan" means the action plan that establishes priority
programs and services to be implemented at the school level.
31. 
"School Subproject" means any eligible investment aimed at increasing school
efficiency and accountability, identified and prioritized in a School Development
Plan, as approved by the Borrower in accordance with relevant provisions of the
Operational Manual and to be financed by the pertinent Subproject Agreement
for the activities set forth in Part 2(b)(ii)(B) of the Project and to be carried out
by an School Association.
32. 
"SEARH" means Secretaria de Estado da Administragdo e dos Recursos
Humanos, the Borrower's Secretariat of Administration and Human Resources,
and any successor thereof.
33. 
"SEDEC" means Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Econ6mico, the
Borrower's State Secretariat of Economic Development, and any successor
thereof.
34. 
"SEEC" means Secretaria de Estado da Educaqdo e da Cultura, the Borrower's
Education Secretariat, and any successor thereof.
35. 
"SEPLAN" means Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento e das Finanqas, the
Borrower's Secretariat of Planning, and any successor thereof.
36. 
"SESAP" means Secretaria de Estado da Sadde Ptblica, the Borrower's State
Secretariat of Health, and any successor thereof.
37. 
"SESED" means Secretaria de Estado da Seguranqa Pblica e da Defesa Social,
the Borrower's Secretariat of Security and Social Defense, and any successor
thereof.
-23-
38. 
"SETHAS" means Secretaria de Estado do Trabalho, da Habitaqdo e da
Assistincia Social, the Borrower's Secretariat of Labor, Housing and Social
Assistance, and any successor thereof.
39. 
"SETUR" means Secretaria do Estado do Turismo, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Tourism, and any successor thereof.
40. 
"SO" means a social organization formed by members of a community
representing poor and vulnerable communities (i.e. female-headed households,
indigenous and quilombola communities), duly established in the Borrower's
territory in accordance with the Guarantor's laws, that upon meeting the criteria
set forth in the Operational Manual, is eligible to receive a Matching Grant for
carrying 
out 
a Productive 
Subproject, 
a Socioeconomic 
Infrastructure
Subprojects and/or a Social and Environmental Subprojects.
41. 
"Social 
and Environmental 
Subproject" 
means any eligible productive
investment 
aimed 
at 
enhancing 
climate 
resilience 
and 
environmental
sustainability of productive activities, supporting the recovery of environmental
degraded areas, including grey water reuse and capacitation of local recycling
systems, and/or enhancing food security, as approved by the Borrower in
accordance with relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and to be partly
financed with a Matching Grant under the pertinent Subproject Agreement for
the activities set forth in Part 1(b)(iii) of the Project and to be carried out by an
PO, SO or NSO.
42. 
"Socioeconomic 
Infrastructure Subproject" means any eligible productive
investment in basic socioeconomic infrastructure improvements, including water
and sanitation, local access roads and energy, identified and prioritized in the
Borrower's Strategy for Extreme Poverty Elimination, as approved by the
Borrower in accordance with relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and
to be partly financed with a Matching Grant under the pertinent Subproject
Agreement for the activities set forth in Part 1(b) of the Project and to be carried
out by an SO or NSO.
43. 
"Strategy for Extreme Poverty Elimination" means Plano Rio Grande do Norte
Sem Mis6ria/Programa Rio Grande do Norte Mais Justo, the Borrower's Poverty
Reduction and 
Social 
Inclusion 
Strategy for 2012-2015, 
launched 
in
March 5, 2012.
44. 
"Subproject" means any Productive Subproject, Socioeconomic Infrastructure
Subproject, Social and Environmental Subproject and/or School Subproject.
-24-
45. 
"Subproject Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and an Eligible Implementer as specified in Section I, Part C of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
46. 
"Sustainable Regional Development Strategy" means the Borrower's integrated
management initiative aimed at prioritizing and monitoring strategic projects and
activities for social and economic development, taking into consideration the
region's challenges and potential as an attractive or restrictive area, 
public
infrastructure investments and services delivering, as well as to provide guidance
for private investments, proposing solutions to avoid or mitigate environmental
and social impacts.
47. 
"UES" means any of the units mentioned on Section I.A.2(c) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
-25-
