OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8284-BR
Loan Agreement
(Pernambuco Equity and Inclusive Growth Development Policy Loan
Programa de Desenvolvimento das Politicas Piblicas do Estado
de Pernambuco II - DPL)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
Dated 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
P , 2013, entered into between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECO&STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and STATE OF
PERNAMBUCO ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which
are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the Borrower's
maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii)
appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the Bank of
the proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in the Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program) into an account to be designated
by the Borrower, the Borrower's financial capacity will be strengthened by expanding its
fiscal space to finance further public investments in accordance with the Borrower's
budgetary laws.
The Bank and the Borrower therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred and fifty million
Dollars ($550,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Borrower's
representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's secretary of Planning and
Management.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%).
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior non-objection
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, 
request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
o
-2- 
OA
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section H of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on: (i) the Guarantor's macroeconomic
policy framework; (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure 
program, 
sustainable 
debt, 
and 
appropriate 
fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor, as referred to in the Whereas Clause
(A) of this Agreement; and (iii) the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower's
ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt
and/or fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or (ii) reversing the
objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program
-3-
including any action specified in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that an
action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower to reverse
any action or policy under the Program, including any action listed in Section I.A
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the
Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor's
macroeconomic policy framework.
(b) 
The Bank is satisfied with the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure 
program, 
sustainable 
debt 
and 
appropriate 
fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Planejamento e Gestdo
Rua da Aurora, 1377, Santo Amaro, 2o. andar
Recife, PE 50040-090
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-81) 31823800
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
-4-
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
0a 
fetma! 
,A /poj 
97 4rya,, as of the
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
By
uthorized Rep sentative
N 05
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. Actions under the Program
A. Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:
1. 
New Economy - Opportunities for all Pernambucans
1.1. The Borrower has created the legal basis for the establishment of a monitoring
and evaluation system for the PROINFRA Program that will provide information
for evidence-based policy making, as evidenced by:
(i) The Borrower's Decree No 38.971, dated December 19, 2012, published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 20, 2012, establishing the
requirement for monitoring and evaluation of the effects of PROINFRA
program on participating municipalities;
(ii) Portaria No. 19 of the Borrower's Secretariat of Economic Development
(Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico), dated March 9, 2013, published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on April 11, 2013, specifying the details
of the monitoring and evaluation system, including an outline of the
evaluation approach, a list of indicators, the implementation schedule, data
collection and management procedures, and mandatory issuance and public
disclosure of annual reports.
1.2. The Borrower's Business Registration Agency (Junta Comercial de Pernambuco
- JUCEPE) has signed agreements with concerned Borrower's agencies and
municipalities to implement REDESIM/PE and establish a "single window" for
the Borrower's business registration process, thus reducing administrative
barriers to firm entry:
(i) 
Agreement between JUCEPE and the Borrower's Environment Agency
(Agincia Estadual de Meio Ambiente), dated June 29, 2012;
(ii) Agreement between JUCEPE and the Borrower's Agency of Health
Surveillance (Agincia Pernambucana de Vigildncia Sanitaria - APEVISA),
dated December 3, 2012;
(iii) Agreement between JUCEPE and the Borrower's Fire Protection Agency
(Corpo de Bombeiros Militar de Pernambuco - CBMPE), dated December
26, 2012;
(iv) Agreement between JUCEPE and the Borrower's Finance Secretariat
(Secretaria da Fazenda), dated July 1, 2012;
.
0
-6-
(v) Agreement between JUCEPE and the Borrower's Secretariat of Federal
Revenue (Secretaria da Receita Federal do Brasil), dated September 29,
2011; and
(vi) Separate Agreement between JUCEPE and each of the Borrower's
Participating Municipalities.
1.3. The Borrower has created the legal basis for the establishment of a monitoring
and evaluation system for the TVET Programs in the Borrower's territory that
will support policy development and program management, as evidenced by:
(i) The Borrower's Decree 38.086, dated April 18, 2012, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on April 19, 2012, that creates the TVET
Programs and details its goals, creates inter-sectorial committees for its
implementation and management, and establishes the responsibilities and
modalities for preparation of annual evaluation reports of program results to
support next years' activity planning;
(ii) The Borrower's Decree No. 38.426, dated July 11, 2012, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on July 12, 2012, which includes the Borrower's
Secretary of Education in the scope of the TVET Programs; and
(iii) The Borrower's Decree No. 39.299, dated April 15, 2013, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on April 16, 2013, that modifies Decree 38.086
of April 18, 2012, to define the guidelines for the implementation of the
monitoring and evaluation system and for the use of monitoring and
evaluation data produced by the system.
1.4. The Borrower has created a financing mechanism for the implementation of the
Productive Inclusion Program by municipalities within its territory, linked to
results-based agreements that establish results monitoring arrangements and
annual targets on service provision, as evidenced by:
(i) The Borrower's Decree 38.929, dated December 7, 2012, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on December 8, 2012, that establishes an
Automatic Transfer System (ATS) for the Productive Inclusion Program,
transferring resources from the Borrower's Fund for Social Assistance
("Sistema de Transfer6ncia Autom6tica e Regular de Recursos Financeiros
do Fundo Estadual de Assistincia Social" (FEAS) to the Municipal Funds
for Social Assistance ("Fundos Municipais de Assistgncia Social (FMAS)");
(ii) Resolution CIB No. 01 dated April 26, 2013, published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on April 27, 2013, which approves the criteria for regular
and automatic transfer of funds using the ATS in the Productive Inclusion
Program and establishes the targets for service provision and amounts and
regulates the use of funds;
N-7
(iii) Resolution No. 296 of the Borrower's Social Assistance Council (Conselho
Estadual de Assistincia Social), dated April 29, 2013, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on May 3, 2013, that registers the approval of
the Resolution CB No. 01 of April 26, 2013; and
(iv) Portaria No. 58 from SEDSDH, of March 22, 2013, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on March 26, 2013, that establishes the
administrative procedures for eligible municipalities to adhere to the ATS,
which includes a draft of the Adherence Pact (Termo de Adesdo) to the ATS
and Acceptance Pact (Termo de Aceite) of the targets and monitoring
requirements specific to the productive inclusion programs to be signed by
eligible municipalities, including an annual report, the annual targets for
service provision and the details of the evaluation report to be completed by
the municipalities.
2. Action Driven State - Capacity to Generate Results
2.1. The Borrower has established the legal basis for the Results-based Management
Model and extended its application throughout the Borrower's executive branch,
as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 39.336, dated April 25, 2013,
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on April 26, 2013, that formalizes
the Results-based Management Model and requires the adoption of specific
results-based management tools and approaches in all Borrower's secretariats.
3. 
Quality of Life - A Better Life for all Pernambucans
3.1. The Borrower has strengthen violence prevention programs in the Borrower's
territory with a focus on the rehabilitation of crack users, gender inclusion and
monitoring capacity, through:
3.1.1. 
The creation of an operational framework for the expansion of the
"Programa Atitude" as a form of social prevention to combat drug-related
violence and rehabilitate drug users, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree
39.201 dated March 18, 2013, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on March 19, 2013, which formally establishes "Programa Atitude" as part
of "Pacto pela Vida Program" and defines its objectives and operational
framework.
3.1.2. 
The establishment of institutional mechanisms for addressing violence
against women, as evidenced by:
(i) the Borrower's Decree 38.576 of August 27, 2012, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on August 28, 2012, which creates the Technical
Chamber to Combat Violence Against Women (Cdmara para Enfrentamento
da Violincia de Ginero contra a Mulher) as a multisectoral forum for policy
-8-
coordination and implementation of strategic actions to address violence
against women as part of the broader "Pacto pela Vida Program"; and
(ii) the execution of a Technical Cooperation Agreement (Acordo de Cooperaqdo
T&nica) between the Secretariat of Women's Affairs (Secretaria da Mulher)
and the Secretariat of Social Defense (Secretaria da Defesa Social), dated
March 18, 2013, which establishes the objectives and modalities for
coordination and collaboration between the two secretariats, including in the
area of data sharing and joint monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
3.2. The Borrower has strengthened its policies, programs and approaches aimed at
attending the needs of patients with chronic conditions, with an emphasis on
diabetes and hypertension, through:
3.2.1. The approval of the Borrower's plan to address chronic non-communicable
disease and establishment of measures to support its implementation, as
evidenced by:
(i) CB Resolution No. 2.212 dated February 18, 2013, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on February 19, 2013, that approves the
Borrower's Plan to Address Chronic Non-communicable Disease;
(ii) Decision of the Municipal Secretariats of Health Council (Conselho de
Secretarias Municipais de SaMde - COSEMS), dated March 25, 2013,
that includes municipal activities and a revised monitoring framework
in the Borrower's Plan to Address Chronic Non-communicable
Disease; and
(iii) Portaria No. 157 of the Borrower's Secretariat of Health published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette on March 28, 2013, and Portaria No.
256 of Borrower's Secretariat of Health, dated May 7, 2013, published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 8, 2013, that establishes a
working group to revise the Borrower's Policy to Strengthen Primary
Care based on the Borrower's Plan to Address Chronic Non-
communicable 
Disease, 
thus 
taking 
concrete 
steps 
towards
implementation of said Plan.
3.2.2. The approval of new clinical protocols and simplified clinical pathways
focused on chronic non-communicable diseases, as evidenced by:
(i) CIB Resolution No. 2.213, dated February 18, 2013, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on February 19, 2013 that approves
clinical protocols for chronic non-communicable diseases, with a
particular focus on hypertension and diabetes;
(ii) CB Resolution No. 2.214, dated February 18, 2013, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on February 19, 2013, that approves
-9-
simplified clinical 
guidelines 
for 
chronic non-communicable
diseases; and
(iii) Portaria No. 157 of the Borrower's Secretariat of Health published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on March 28, 2013, and Portaria
No. 256 of Borrower's Secretariat of Health, dated May 7, 2013,
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 8, 2013, that
establishes a working group to revise the Borrower's Policy to
Strengthen Primary Care based on the Borrower's Plan to Address
Chronic Non-communicable Disease, with the aim of enhancing the
organization of primary care and primary care interventions,
including through the incorporation of new monitoring indicators
and the introduction of clinical protocols and simplified clinical
guidelines.
Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
548,625,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,375,000
(3) Amount due pursuant to Section 
0
2.07(c) of this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
550,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied:
-N
- 10- -
(a) with the adequacy of the Guarantor's macroeconomic policy framework and
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program;
and
(b) with the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate expenditure program,
sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is September 30, 2014. The Bank will grant an
extension of the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has
informed the Bank that it agrees with such an extension.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2018
through May 15, 2043 
2.00%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 12 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-13-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"ATS" means Automatic Transfer System for the Productive Inclusion Program,
which transfers resources directly from the Borrower's Fund for Social
Assistance to the Municipal Funds for Social Assistance.
2. 
"CB" means Comissdo Intergestores Bipartite de Assistincia Social, the
Bipartite Management Commission for Social Assistance programs whose
members represent the collective interests of the Borrower and its municipalities
on issues concerning social assistance.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
- 14 -
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"JUCEPE" means Junta Comercial de Pernambuco, the Borrower's business
registration agency which is responsible for managing REDESIM/PE.
6. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial.
7. 
"Pacto pela Vida Program" means the Borrower's program aimed at improving
citizen security and reduce crime through an integrated strategy involving the
coordination across 12 Borrower's secretariats, the Prosecutor's Office and
municipal governments and created through the Borrower's plan for public
security (Plano Estadual de Seguranqa Pfiblica (PESP-PE 2007)) and Decree
No. 30.569 dated June 29, 2007.
~ 
15/-
-15-
8. 
"Participating Municipalities" means the following municipalities that have
entered into agreements with JUCEPE to implement REDESIM/PE: Municipality
of Abreu e Lima on November 8, 2012; Municipality of Araripina on April 26,
2012; Municipality of Arcoverde on August 15, 2012; Municipality of Cabo de
Santo Agostinho on June 12, 2012; Municipality of Camaragibe on August 14,
2012; Municipality of Carpina on July 25, 2012; Municipality of Garanhuns on
May 10, 2012; Municipality of Goiana on June 4, 2012; Municipality of Igarassu
on July 9, 2012; Municipality of Ipojuca on August 13, 2012; Municipality of
Itamaracd on June 21, 2012; Municipality of Jaboatdo on July 17, 2012;
Municipality of Moreno on 20 July 2012; Municipality of Paulista on August 3,
2012; Municipality of Petrolina on November 13, 2012; Municipality of
Salgueiro on May 18, 2012; Municipality of Sdo Lourenqo da Mata, on July 20,
2012; and Municipality of Serra Talhada on August 8, 2012.
9. 
"Plan to Address Chronic Non-communicable Disease" means the Borrower's
plan that contains recommendations and activities for the provision of health
services, human resources, pharmaceutical drugs and equipment that should be
provided to address the non-communicable disease challenges in the Borrower's
territory.
10. 
"Policy to Strengthen Primary Care" means the Borrower's policy which defines
goals, function and institutional responsibilities for the financing and provision of
integrated, accessible primary health care in the Borrower's territory.
11. 
"Productive Inclusion Program" means Programa de Inclusdo Produtiva -
Pernambuco no Batente, the Borrower's program aimed at promoting
employability and/or income earning opportunities for the poorest segments of
the population, created through Law No. 13.679, December 10, 2008.
12. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated March 27, 2013, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
13. 
"Programa Atitude" means the Borrower's social integrated attention for crack
users and their families program, aimed at reducing drug-related violence and
rehabilitating drug users.
14. 
"PROINFRA Program" means Programa de Desenvolvimento da Infraestrutura
Industrial, the Borrower's Industrial Infrastructure Development Program,
created through the Borrower's Decree No. 37.716, dated December 29, 2011.
- 16 -
15. 
"REDESIM/PE" means Rede Nacional para a Simpliicavdo do Registro e da
LegalizaVdo de Empresas e Neg6cios, the national network to simplify business
registration, created through the Guarantor's Law 11.598/2007 to which the
Borrower adhered in 2012.
16. 
"Results-based Management Model" means the Borrower's management model
established under Lei Complementar No. 141 of September 3, 2009, which
consists of the systematic organization of the functions related to the Borrower's
formal planning instruments (i.e., its Plano Plurianual - PPA (the Borrower's
multiannual planning instrument), its annual budget guidelines and its annual
budget law) and management tools adopted by the Borrower's public
administration.
17. 
"SEDSDH" means Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Social e Direitos Humanos,
the Borrower's Secretariat of Social Development and Human Rights.
18. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
19. 
"TVET Programs" means all the technical and vocational education and training
courses implemented in the Borrower's territory, including both long duration
courses (minimum 800 hours) directed at school age population, and shorter
duration courses (between 160 and 400 hours) directed at the existing workforce.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:.
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
-17-
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
- 18- 
o%
