OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8316-PY
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Sustainable Agriculture
and Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
C, 
2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement datedDe cQ "er; 
2013, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars (US$
100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under
the Original Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out Parts 1, 2 and 3
of the Project through MAG, with the assistance of DINCAP and the
participation of INDI in accordance with the INDI Participation Agreement; (b)
carry out Part 4 (a) of the Project through MAG and MOF, with the assistance of
DINCAP and the participation of SENACSA, in accordance with the SENACSA
Participation Agreement; and (c) carry out Parts 4 (b) and 5 through MAG, with
the assistance of DINCAP, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower, through MAG, and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower, through MAG, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
That INDI shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under
the INDI Participation Agreement.
(b) 
That SENACSA shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations
under the SENACSA Participation Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of, namely, that any event
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The INDI Participation Agreement has been amended by the parties
thereto, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been updated by the Borrower, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on June 5, 2015.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
(Ministerio de Hacienda)
Chile 128
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Facsimile: 595 (21) 448-283
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
6Uho'0\ Q 
T. 
G. 
,as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By
Authorized Ikepresentative
Name: 
0 
_ 
"v 
-
_v} 
0 
_T.,_
Title: 
,n 1 
C 
0 
C
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Re resentative
Name: 
______________foc)L
Title: Couy 
Yg 
c 
TA 
-
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve in a sustainable way the socio-
economic condition of Small-Scale Farmers and Indigenous Communities in the Project
Area, through the support of actions to strengthen their community organization, self-
governance, and access to markets and value chains.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Community Organization Development and Capacity Building
(a) 
Design and implementation of a training program, which program
consists of the provision of training to Project extensionists (such as,
microcatchment, 
Indigenous 
Communities, 
social 
organization
technicians and rural communities in Target Areas), MAG's personnel
assigned to the Project, and other Project stakeholders on, inter alia: (i)
conceptual and methodological aspects of the Project; (ii) Project
administrative 
procedures; 
(iii) 
community 
development 
and
strengthening of local organizations; (iv) principles and practices of
participatory rural assessments, formation and operation of CDGs, lAs,
MDCs and MSCs, participatory planning, and stakeholder monitoring;
(v) sustainable natural resources management practices; (vi) on-farm
production and off-farm income generation; (vii) gender sensitization;
(viii) animal production and health practices; (ix) agricultural production
techniques and good practices; and (x) any other area acceptable to the
Bank, all for the benefit of Small-Scale Farmers and Indigenous
Communities.
(b) 
Design and implementation of an environmental education program to,
inter alia, raise awareness amongst Project stakeholders on the need to
address environmental problems that would improve the livelihood of the
rural population.
(c) 
(i) Provision of technical assistance: (A) to assist MAG in the selection
of microcatchment areas, areas in which Indigenous Communities are
located and Target Areas; (B) to improve the production capacity and the
sustainable management of natural resources of Small-Scale Farmers,
Indigenous Communities, and other Project stakeholders acceptable to
the Bank; and (C) to establish MDCs and CDGs (as legal entities) in the
areas mentioned in (A) herein, as applicable; and (ii) strengthening of
existing CDGs, lAs and MSCs, all in accordance with the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
-6-
(d) 
Design and implementation of a financial education program aimed at, inter alia,
increasing knowledge amongst Project stakeholders 
about financial and
commercial matters to improve their ability to optimize the monetary benefits
from their agricultural production and marketing.
Part 2. Rural Extension and Adaptive Research
(a) 
(i) Carrying out of: (A) information workshops and participatory rural
assessments in the selected areas referred to in Part 1 (c) (i) (A) of the Project;
(B) an exchange of experiences program 
among Small-Scale 
Farmers,
Indigenous Communities and other Project stakeholders; and (C) complementary
socioeconomic and environmental diagnostic surveys/censuses in the selected
areas referred to in Part 1 (c) (i) (A) of the Project; (ii) design of resource
mapping of the selected areas referred to in Part 1 (c) (i) (A) of the Project; and
(iii) provision of technical assistance and/or training to Beneficiaries in: (A) the
preparation of MDPs, MIPs and ICDPs; (B) the formulation of Community
Subprojects which shall be based on the corresponding MDP, MIP and ICDP;
and (C) the implementation of Community Subprojects, the adoption of
productive and environmental practices, and the improvement of marketing in
respect of said subprojects.
(b) 
(i) Carrying out of on-farm technology validation trials for: (A) the improvement
and validation of existing agricultural production technologies and practices
aimed at diversifying production and addressing farming issues raised by Small-
Scale Farmers, Indigenous Communities, and other Project stakeholders
acceptable to the Bank; and (B) the adaptation and validation of existing
productive systems to local agro-ecological conditions and/or to Small-Scale
Farmers' production systems; and (ii) carrying out of the following activities to
address technical and social constraints: (A) studies to identify and develop
specialized markets (including access to the same) and inclusive value chains;
(B) assessments on land tenure; (C) studies to support mainstreaming of natural
resources management and rural development strategies into national policy; (D)
feasibility studies to identify opportunities for new products in the areas referred
to in Part 1 (c) (i) (A) of the Project; (E) assessments of alternative financial
mechanisms so that the microcatchment development assistance to be provided
under the Project is sustainable; and (F) any other study acceptable to the Bank.
(c) 
Strengthening the operational capacity of the ZCUs.
Part 3. Sustainable Rural Development Fund
Provision of Community Grants to carry out demand-driven investments, which
investments consist of, inter alia: (i) home improvements and construction of sanitation
infrastructure; (ii) adoption of sustainable land use practices; (iii) increasing crop and
livestock production; (iv) post-harvest food processing and storage; (v) animal health
-7-
vaccination and identification of tagging activities, including the provision of training on
animal health and production issues; (vi) forest and water conservation practices at farm
levels; (vii) diversification and improvement of production systems to increase income;
(viii) construction of minor water supply facilities; (ix) acquisition and utilization of
minimum tillage equipment; (x) establishment of micro-enterprises; (xi) rehabilitation of
roads (within the existing right of way); (xii) establishment of nurseries and/or
greenhouses; (xiii) construction of waste disposal facilities, and recycling of pesticide
containers; and (xiv) any other investment acceptable to the Bank.
Part 4. Animal Health Improvement
Strengthening of the institutional and operational capacity of: (a) SENACSA,
through, inter alia: (i) the improvement of its management information system (Sistema
de Informacidn de Gestidn de Oficinas Regionales-SIGOR); (ii) the improvement of
laboratory facilities; (iii) the improvement of selected animal health control posts and
units located within the Borrower's territory; and (iv) the acquisition and utilization of
equipment, and the provision of technical assistance and training required therefor; (b)
VMG, through, inter alia: (i) the construction of small infrastructure (as approved by the
Bank); (ii) the improvement of the Borrower's genetic program for small-holders; (iii) the
improvement of training programs on animal husbandry, animal health, artificial
insemination and processing of agricultural products for small-holder livestock farmers;
(iv) the improvement of pasture programs for small-holder livestock farmers; and (v) the
acquisition and utilization of equipment, and the provision of technical assistance and
training required therefor.
Part 5. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) 
(i) Strengthening of MAG's institutional, operational, administrative and
financial management capacity to enable MAG (including the operational and
administrative capacity of the PMU, the Sub-UAF and the UOC) to assist the
Borrower in the implementation, management, evaluation and monitoring of the
Project; (ii) carrying out of semi-annual audits of Part 3 of the Project in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) carrying out of annual performance
assessments of the PMU, the Sub-UAF, the UOC and the ZCUs.
(b) 
Design and implementation of a training program for MAG's selected personnel
on Project management, public sector accounting, organization and procurement,
treasury management, and financial management and control (including
accounting).
(c) 
Establishment and implementation of: (i) a Project management information
system; (ii) a geographic information system; and (iii) a Project monitoring and
evaluation system.
-8-
(d) 
Design and implementation of a communication and dissemination strategy,
which strategy consists of, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of Project launch
workshops, informational workshops, educational programs, and promotional
and animal health campaigns at the national, departmental and local levels; (ii)
the establishment and operation of a Project internet home page; (iii) the printing
and distribution of informational material; and (iv) any other activity of similar
nature acceptable to the Bank.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements
A. 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
B. 
(a) 
For purposes of enabling INDI and SENACSA to continue providing the
required assistance under the Project, the Borrower: (i) through MAG,
shall amend the INDI Participation Agreement with INDI; and (ii)
through MAG and MOF, shall, not later than one month after the
Effective Date, amend the SENACSA Participation Agreement with
SENACSA, all under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to the Original
Loan Agreement and the pertinent provisions of this Agreement, as
applicable to 
INDI 
and 
SENACSA's 
roles 
under the 
Project,
respectively.
(b) 
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under 
the 
INDI 
Participation 
Agreement 
and 
the 
SENACSA
Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the
INDI Participation Agreement and/or the SENACSA 
Participation
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
C. 
(a) 
As part of the approval of Community Subprojects, the Borrower,
through MAG, shall:
(i) 
carry 
out an 
environmental 
screening 
of the 
pertinent
Community Subproject in accordance with the provisions of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework;
(ii) 
if the environmental screening mentioned in (i) herein has
identified potential negative environmental impacts (in which
case the results of the screening shall include, inter alia, the
pertinent mitigatory measures and their implementation timing),
cause the pertinent Beneficiary to prepare and furnish to the
Bank an environmental management plan, acceptable to the
Bank, and thereafter carry out said plan in accordance with its
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank pursuant to the
terms of the corresponding Community Subproject Agreement;
and
- 10 -
(iii) 
upon completion of said environmental screening and approval
of the pertinent Community Subproject, and prior to the carrying
out of said Community Subproject, the Borrower, through MAG,
shall provide a Community Grant to the corresponding
Beneficiary under a community subproject agreement (the
Community Subproject Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower, through MAG, and said Beneficiary under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Community Subproject Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and
(ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Community Subproject Agreement or any provision
thereof.
D. 
In addition to the provisions of Section I.C above, the Borrower, through MAG,
shall refrain from presenting to the Bank Loan withdrawal applications and/or
withdrawing Loan proceeds from the Designated Account (all under Category
(3)) to finance any given Community Subproject, until the Borrower has
furnished to the Bank, evidence, acceptable to the Bank, indicating that the
auditor to carry out the audits referred to in Part 5 (a) (ii) of the Project has been
hired as provided in Section II.B.4 (a) of this Schedule.
E. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of: (A) the Operational Manual; (B) the Indigenous Peoples
Planning 
Framework; 
and 
(C) 
the 
Environmental 
and 
Social
Management Framework.
(b) 
In case of any conflict amongst the terms of the Operational Manual, the
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, the Environmental and Social
Management Framework and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.
F. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall: (i) operate and maintain within
DINCAP, at all times during Project implementation: (A) a Project
management unit (the PMU); (B) an administrative financial sub-unit
(the Sub-UAF); and (C) a procurement unit (the UOC), all with a
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including
those referred to in Part 5 (a) (i) of the Project and in the Operational
-11 -
Manual; and (ii) within the structure of the PMU, operate and maintain,
at all times during Project implementation, at least five zone coordination
units (the ZCUs), all with a structure, functions and responsibilities set
forth in the Operational Manual.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall ensure that: (i) the PMU is at all
times during Project implementation headed by a Project coordinator and
assisted by professional staff (including, inter alia, an indigenous
peoples specialist) and administrative staff; (ii) each ZCU is at all times
during Project implementation headed by a zone coordinator and assisted
by administrative staff (including, inter alia, a procurement assistant);
(iii) the Sub-UAF, is at all times during Project implementation headed
by a director and assisted by professional staff (including, inter alia, a
financial management specialist and a disbursement specialist) and
administrative staff; and (iv) the UOC, is at all times during Project
implementation headed by a director and assisted by professional staff
(including, inter alia, a procurement specialist) and administrative staff,
all of the above in numbers and with terms of reference, and
qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank.
(c) 
The Borrower, through MAG, undertakes that, unless the Bank may
otherwise agree, the PMU, ZCU, Sub-UAF and UOC personnel assigned
to the Project shall only be hired based on professional criteria and shall
only be replaced for reasons related to performance. The performance of
said personnel of the PMU, ZCU, Sub-UAF and UOC shall continue to
be assessed once a year as referred to in Section I.K of this Schedule in a
manner and under a criteria acceptable to the Bank.
G. 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall, operate and maintain, at all times during
Project implementation: (a) a web page, on terms and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank, for purposes of disseminating Project information to stakeholders; (b) a
digital filing system, acceptable to the Bank, for purposes of storing
documentation related to the Project's procurement process and contract
management (such as, payment certificates, invoices, receipts, and contract
guarantees); and (c) the Project's management information system referred to in
Part 5 (c) (i) of the Project acceptable to the Bank.
H. 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall, and shall cause each Beneficiary to ensure
that any works under the Project do not involve any Resettlement.
I. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.C (a) of this Schedule, the
Borrower, through MAG, shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval,
the first three proposals in respect of the Community Subprojects referred to in
Section I.C (a) of this Schedule.
- 12 -
J. 
The Borrower, through its MOF, shall follow a mechanism acceptable to the
Bank for the payment of Foreign Expenditures.
K. 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall hire a human resources firm acceptable to the
Bank, and under terms acceptable to the Bank, to assist MAG in, inter alia, the
selection of the Borrower's civil servants and individual consultants for the
Project.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Project indicators set forth
in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester (starting with the same calendar semester of the Effective
Date), and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five calendar days
after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II.A.1 above, the Borrower,
through MAG, shall: (a) not later than December 31, 2015, prepare and furnish to
the Bank, a mid-term consolidated report of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, on the progress made by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, as of the date of presentation of said report; and (b)
not later than March 31, 2018, prepare and furnish to the Bank, a final
consolidated report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, on the results and impact of the Project as of the date of presentation of
said report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MAG, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project
Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering each calendar
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year
- 13 -
of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II.B.3 of this Schedule, and for
purposes of carrying out Part 5 (a) (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) hire
independent financial auditor with experience and qualifications acceptable to
the Bank, for purposes of carrying out the semi-annual audits referred to in said
Part of the Project; (b) each calendar semester have Part 3 of the Project audited
by the auditor mentioned in (a) herein, in accordance with terms of reference set
forth in the Operational Manual, and consistently applied auditing financial
standards, all acceptable to the Bank; and (c) not later than forty five calendar
days after the completion of each said audit, furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank the information as so audited, and such other information concerning
the audited information and such auditors, as the Bank may from time to time
reasonably request.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
4. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to the provisions in Section III A.1 and 2
of this Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the
procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants' services
under the Project (as the case may be):
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants'
services (in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) standard
bidding documents, and standard requests for quotations/proposals (as
- 14 -
the case may be), which shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of
dispute provision; (ii) 
model bid evaluation 
forms, and model
quotations/proposals evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii)
model contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
bidders or consultants (as the case may be) shall not, as a condition for
submitting bids or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to
be registered in Paraguay; (ii) have a representative in Paraguay; (iii) be
associated or subcontract with Paraguayan suppliers, contractors or
consultants; and (iv) be required to furnish evidence to the Borrower that
they have purchase the standard bidding documents;
(c) 
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above: (i) standard
bidding documents for the procurement of goods, works and non-
consulting services under International Competitive Bidding procedures
shall stipulate that the period for submitting bids shall be at least 45
calendar days from the date of notification and advertising of the
Specific Procurement Notice as referred to in paragraph 2.8 of the
Procurement Guidelines; (ii) 
standard bidding documents for the
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services under National
Competitive Bidding procedures which: (A) goods, works and non-
consulting services are estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per
contract, shall stipulate that the period for submitting bids shall be at
least 30 calendar days from the date of notification and advertising of the
specific procurement notice; and (B) goods, works and non-consulting
services are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract,
shall stipulate that the period for submitting bids shall be at least 20
calendar days from the date of notification and advertising of the specific
procurement notice; and (iii) standard requests for quotations for the
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services under
Shopping procedures which goods, works and non-consulting services
are estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, shall
stipulate that the period for submitting quotations shall be at least 10
calendar days from the date of notification and advertising of the specific
procurement notice;
(d) 
(i) the Borrower, through MAG, shall supply the SEPA with the
information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days
after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the
Procurement Plan at least biannually, or as required by the Bank, to
reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and shall
supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; and
(e) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities.
- 15 -
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive
Bidding; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Community Participation
procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Least Cost Selection; (b) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms; (c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (d) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
- 16 -
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works non-consulting 
3,500,000 
100%
services, consultants' services,
Operating Costs and Training
and/or Workshops for Part 1 of the
Project
(2) Goods, works, non-consulting 
27,000,000 
100%
services, consultants' services,
Operating Costs and Training
and/or Workshops for Part 2 of the
Project
(3) Community Grants 
60,000,000 
100%
(4) Goods, works, non-consulting 
0 
100%
services, consultants' services and
Training and/or Workshops for
Part 4 of the Project
(5) Goods, works, non-consulting 
7,100,000 
100%
services, consultants' services,
Operating Costs and Training
and/or Workshops for Part 5 of the
Project
(6) Unallocated 
2,150,000
(7) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in 
accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
- 17-
For purposes of this table:
(a) 
the term "Training and/or Workshops" means expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower or the Beneficiaries, all as
approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to
finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if
applicable), training and/or workshop registration fees, and rental of training
and/or workshop facilities and equipment under the Project; and
(b) 
the term "Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been
incurred 
by: (i) the Borrower, through MAG, absent the Project, for
transportation and per-diem costs of the PMU, the Sub-UAF, the UOC and ZCUs
staff, Project administration costs (including office rent), operation and
maintenance of office equipment, 
non-durable goods and salaries for civil
servants assigned to carry out administrative (e.g. secretarial) responsibilities
under the Project (but excluding any other type of civil servant salaries, and/or all
civil servants bonuses (such as remuneraci6n extraordinaria, remuneracion
adicional, gratificaciones por resultados, bonificaciones por responsabilidad en
el cargo y gastos de residencia) to the Borrower's personnel and/or to individual
consultants hired under the Project); or (ii) the Beneficiaries, absent the
respective Community Subproject, for, inter alia: (A) vehicle rental, operation
and maintenance; (B) in-country travel per diem and allowances; (C) banking
services and insurance costs; and (D) advertisement, communication and
dissemination expenses.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 29, 2017.
- 18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15: 
2.27%
Beginning on April 15, 2022
through October 15, 2022
On each April 15 and October 15: 
0.00%
Beginning on April 15, 2023
through October 15, 2024
On each April 15 and October 15: 
3.97%
Beginning on April 15, 2025
through October 15, 2032
On each April 15 and October 15: 
1.44%
Beginning on April 15, 2033
through April 15, 2043
On October 15, 2043 
1.7%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
- 19-
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Community Subproject Agreements
Each Community Subproject Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following
provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through MAG:
(i) 
to promptly disburse to each Beneficiary the proceeds of the
corresponding Community Grant in a manner acceptable to the
Bank; and
(ii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Community Subproject is carried out
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines and the pertinent provisions of this Agreement;
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through MAG, to take remedial actions against
the pertinent Beneficiary in case said Beneficiary shall have failed to
comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent Community
Subproject Agreement (which actions may include, inter alia, the partial
or total suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of the Community
Grant (as the case may be), all as previously agreed with the Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each Beneficiary:
(i) 
to carry out the pertinent Community Subproject with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, social and
cultural property practices, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (applicable to
recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower), the
Operational Manual, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework (including the pertinent environmental management
plan) and 
the 
Indigenous 
Peoples 
Planning 
Framework
(including the pertinent ICDP);
(ii) 
to use the Community Grant for purposes of partially financing
the carrying out of the pertinent Community Subproject;
- 21 -
(iii) 
to, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, provide a
contribution of at least 15% of the cost of the Community
Subproject (either through an in-kind contribution and/or the
provision of labor), as well as facilities, services and other
resources, 
necessary 
or 
appropriate 
to 
carry 
out 
the
corresponding Community Subproject;
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Community Subproject Agreement or any provision
thereof unless previously agreed by the Borrower, through
MAG, and the Bank;
(v) 
if applicable, to comply, or caused to be complied, with the
obligations referred to in Sections 5.05, 5.06 (a), 5.07 , 5.10 and
5.11 of the General Conditions (relating to land acquisition, use
of goods, works and services, plans, documents and records,
cooperation and consultation and visits, respectively) in respect
of said Community Subproject; and
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through MAG, to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of Community
Subprojects.
- 22 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiaries" means: (a) a municipality; and/or (b) an Indigenous Community
(as defined in paragraph 16 (b) of this Appendix); and/or (c) an individual small
farmer duly organized as a legal entity (as covered by the definition of Small-
Scale Farmer set forth in paragraph 35(a) of this Appendix); and/or (e) a CDG
duly organized as a legal entity; and/or (e) a group of CDGs duly organized as a
legal entity, all of which have met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual
to be benefited by a Community Grant (as defined below).
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"CDG" means a community development group, mainly comprised of small
farmers, which is organized as a legal entity under the Borrower's legislation.
5. 
"Community Grant" means a matching grant in cash made out of part of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (3) and to be provided by MAG to the
corresponding Beneficiary in order to co-finance the reasonable costs of goods,
works, non-consulting services, consultant services, Training and/or Workshops
(as defined under Section IV.A.2.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) and
Operating Costs (as defined under Section IV.A.2(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement), required for a Community Subproject, in accordance with ceiling
amounts, terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and provided
in the respective Community Subproject Agreement.
6. 
"Community Subproject" means any of the investments under Part 3 of the
Project.
7. 
"Community Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.C (a) (iii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
9. 
"DINCAP" means the Direccidn Nacional de Coordinacidn y Administraci6n de
Proyectos, the National Directorate for the Coordination and Administration of
Projects within MAG.
- 23 -
10. 
"Environmental 
and 
Social Management 
Framework" 
(formerly 
named
Environmental Management Plan under the Original Loan Agreement) means the
Borrower's framework dated November 30, 2007 and updated on October 31,
2013, all acceptable to the Bank, which framework sets forth, inter alia: (a) the
guidelines for carrying out the environmental screenings and the preparation of
the environmental management plans referred to in Section I.C (a) (i) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (b) the actions to be followed in connection with
the finding of cultural property; (c) the actions to prevent forest degradation and
promote reforestation and regeneration of natural forests; (d) the actions to
prevent natural habitat conversion or degradation; (e) the actions to mitigate any
environmental negative impact as a result of the carrying out of the Project; and
(f) pest management practices, as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
12. 
"IA" means an indigenous association (which association may or may not be
organized as a legal entity under the Borrower's legislation), and located in the
Project Area.
13. 
"ICDP" means any indigenous community development plan which contains,
inter alia, the investments, priorities and/or needs of the corresponding
Indigenous Community (as defined below) and is prepared in compliance with
the requirements set forth in the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (as
defined below).
14. 
"INDI" means Instituto Paraguayo del Indigena, the Borrower's Indigenous
People Institute.
15. 
"INDI Participation Agreement" means the agreement dated March 4, 2010
(including its Annex 1), as amended pursuant to Section I.B (a) (i) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
16. 
"Indigenous Community" means: (a) an indigenous group without being duly
organized as a legal entity under the Borrower's legislation; and/or (b) an
indigenous group duly organized as a legal entity under the Borrower's
legislation (as the term "indigenous" is defined in the Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework (as defined below), as the case may be, all living in the
Project Area, which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and to
be benefited by the Project.
17. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" (formerly named Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan under the Original Loan Agreement) means the Borrower's
framework dated December 10, 2007 and updated on November 1, 2013, all
- 24 -
acceptable to the Bank, which framework sets forth, inter alia: (a) the measures
through which the Borrower, through MAG, will ensure that Indigenous
Communities (as defined above) receive social and economic benefits under the
Project that are culturally appropriate; (b) the contents of the Project activities
that will benefit Indigenous Communities; and (c) the principles, objectives and
the contents to be included in each ICDP (as defined above), as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"MAG" means Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock.
19. 
"MDC" means a microcatchment development committee (Junta de Desarrollo
de Microcuenca) comprised of representatives of CDGs (as defined above) and
other Project stakeholders living within the pertinent microcatchment area, which
committee may or may not be organized as a legal entity under the Borrower's
legislation.
20. 
"MDP" means any microcatchment development plan which contains, inter alia,
the investments, priorities and/or needs of any the corresponding MDC (as
defined above).
21. 
"MIP" means any municipal investment plan which contains, inter alia, the
investments, priorities and/or needs of the corresponding municipality.
22. 
"MOF" means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
23. 
"MSC" means a municipal steering committee comprised of representatives of
the Indigenous 
Communities and MDCs 
(all 
as defined 
above), 
the
corresponding municipalities which exercise jurisdiction over the pertinent
microcatchment area, and other Project stakeholders.
24. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, dated December 18, 2007,
acceptable to the Bank, which manual sets forth, inter alia: (a) the criteria for
selecting the areas referred to in Part 1 (c) (i) (A) of the Project; (b) the terms for
establishing the CDGs, MDCs, and MSCs, including their functions and
responsibilities; (c) the PMU, the Sub-UAF and the UOC structures and their
functions and responsibilities (including those of the ZCUs); (d) the Project's
chart of accounts and internal controls; (e) the format of: (A) the unaudited
interim financial reports referred to in Section II. B.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and (B) the Financial Statements; (f) the terms of reference for
carrying out the Project audits and the audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement and Part 5 (a) (ii) of the Project, respectively; (g) the Project
indicators (including the results framework); and (h) the Project disbursement
and procurement procedures, as said manual may be updated and/or amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
- 25 -
25. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Original Project
between the Borrower and the Bank, dated June 24, 2008 (Loan No. 7503-PA).
26. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule I to the Original
Loan Agreement.
27. 
"PMU" means the unit referred to in Section I.F (a) (i) (A) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
28. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
29. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 5, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
30. 
"Project Area" means the Borrower's departments of Caazapd, Caaguazu,
Canindeyu, Concepci6n, and San Pedro, as such area may be expanded with the
agreement of the Bank.
31. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
32. 
"SENACSA" means Servicio Nacional para la Calidad y Salud Animal, the
Borrower's National Service for Animal Health and Quality.
33. 
"SENACSA Participation Agreement" means the agreement dated December
2009, as amended pursuant to Section I.B (a) (ii) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
34. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.
35. 
"Small-Scale Farmer" means: (a) an individual small farmer; and/or (b) a CDG
(as the case may be), all living and/or located in the Project Area, which meet the
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to be benefited by the Project.
- 26 -
36. 
"Sub-UAF" means the sub-unit referred to in Section I.F (a) (i) (B) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
37. 
"Target Area" means any territory within a Project Area characterized by high
levels of poverty which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
38. 
"UOC" means the unit referred to in Section I.F (a) (i) (C) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
39. 
"VMG" means Vice-Ministerio de Ganaderia, the Vice Ministry of Livestock
within MAG (as defined above).
40. 
"ZCU" means any of the zone coordination units referred to in Section I.E (a) (ii)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
