OFFICIAL
W0CUMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8256-CN
Loan Agreement
(Jiangxi Shangrao Sanqingshan Airport Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
e4- 
2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8256-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
4 
, 2013, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred 
to 
in 
this 
Agreement, 
the 
amount of fifty million 
Dollars
(USD$ 50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS, TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
X1.0-fA 
/p 
(~i.
Title: 
k- 
-t-AN-'~ 
~ 
.
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve airline connectivity in Northeastern
Jiangxi Province and to demonstrate the environmental sustainability of the development
and operation of the Shangrao Sanqingshan Airport.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Airport Infrastructure Development
1I 
Construction of an airport at Shangrao Municipality, including, inter alia: (a) the
carrying out of a series of civil works, pertaining to a runway, taxiway, and
terminal; (b) the carrying out of installation works, including an air traffic control
tower, a freight facility, supporting infrastructure facility (including a fuel
station, water supply, power supply, fire stations, heating, storm/water
management, parking lots, fence), storm water reuse system and ground aircraft
auxiliary power unit; (c) implementation of the EMPs and RAPs, including their
recommendations for environmental and social management sustainability inside
and outside of the airport; (d) construction of auxiliary facilities (including an
office building, and staff quarters); and (e) provision of service vehicles.
Part B. 
Institutional Development and Capacity Building
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services, studies and training, including, inter
alia:
(a) 
the services of a'Project Management consultant to support the PMO and
SSAC with Project coordination and monitoring.
(b) 
the services of a Management consultant to: (i) develop airport operation
model and support SSAC to prepare and implement a human resource
development plan, an operational and financial manual; (ii) harmonize
compliance with CAAC regulations and international practices; and (iii)
develop a marketing plan to attract airlines to use the new airport and
assist SSAC with airline service agreement negotiations with selected
companies.
(c) 
carrying out studies for: (i) documenting the lessons learned in
developing Green Airport Concept; (ii) airport economic zone planning;
and (iii) national civil aviation sector review, including options for
-6-
promoting 
private 
sector 
investment 
in 
airport 
infrastructure
development.
(d) 
organization of training and study tours covering several aspects of
airport construction and operations.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available
the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions
shall be recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a
grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to
enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the
Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related
to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records,
including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank
from time to time.
-8-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with the provisions of Section LC of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
the indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part
of the Project Report, not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of such period.
-9-
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, Goods, 
47,593,000 
100%
Consultants' services,
Training, Studies and
Incremental Operating
Costs
(2) Interest During 
2,282,000 
Amount payable pursuant
Construction 
to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (c) of the
General Conditions
(3) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
-10-
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made, for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2013 for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed asa Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15:
Beginning July 15, 2018 
2.5%
and ending January 15, 2038
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-12-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"CAAC" means the China Civil Aviation Authority, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
7. 
"EMF" means the environmental management framework, duly adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity in October 2012, which framework sets out the
guidelines for environmental protection and design of EMPs (as hereinafter
defined), as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to
said framework.
8. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" or the acronym "EMP" 
means 
the
Environmental Management Plan of October 2012, adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity, 
and any other EMPs to be prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity consistently with the EMF, which plans set out the
environmental 
protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said
plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written
- 14 -
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto.
9. 
"Green Airport Concept" means a concept of airports that will function with a
minimum environmental load, including load of noise and emission of carbon
dioxide.
10. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenditures directly
related to the Project incurred by the PMO on account of Project implementation,
management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation, in respect of travel
costs, vehicle and equipment leasing, rent, maintenance and repair, office rent
and supplies, communications costs, logistics and translation services, production
and reproduction of documents required for Project implementation, but
excluding the salaries and salary supplements of the Borrower's civil servants.
11. 
"Linked Project" means the access road and related utility infrastructure to be
built by the Borrower from its own funds, to link the airport with the nearest
main road.
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement.
15. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Jiangsxi, or
any successor thereto.
16. 
"Project Leading Group" or "PLG" means the Project Leading Group established
by the Project Implementing Entity, on May 2012, to provide overall leadership,
policy guidance and institutional coordination in Project preparation and
implementation, and any successor thereto, and referred to in Section I.A. 1(a) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
17. 
"PMO" means the Project management office, established by the Project
Implementing Entity on July 7, 2010, to coordinate the preparation of the Project
-
5-
and supervise -and monitor its implementation, and referred to in paragraph
Section 1. A.1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
18. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or the acronym "RAP" means the Resettlement
Action Plan dated November 2012, and all such RAPs to be prepared by the
Project Implementing Entity consistently with the RPF (as hereafter defined), for
purposes of carrying out the Project, which plans shall set out, inter alia: (a) the
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the
Project and related facilities, including access roads, construction camps, borrow
pits, spoil disposal sites, resettlement sites and quarries; (b) actions and measures
for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement
and 
rehabilitation; 
(c) 
the criteria and procedures 
for developing and
implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the
adverse social impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in
locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; and (d) reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may
be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan.
19. 
"RPF" means "Resettlement Policy Framework" or the acronym "RPF" means
the Resettlement Policy Framework dated November 2012, prepared and adopted
by the Project Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Bank, said Framework
setting out the policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other
assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and
for the preparation of resettlement action plans as may be required for Project
activities, as said Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to said Framework.
20. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the EMF, the EMP, the RAP and
the RPF, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments.
21. 
"Shangrao Municipality" means the municipality within the Borrower's Province
of Jiangsxi or any successor thereto.
22. 
"Shangrao Municipal Government" 
or the acronym "SMG" 
means the
government of the Project Implementing Entity's Shangrao Municipality, or any
successor thereto.
23. 
"SSAC" means Shangrao Sanqingshan Airport Company Limited, a company
established 
by Shangrao Municipal 
State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission on July 25, 2011, under the Company Law of the
Borrower.
- 16 -
24. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on
annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to
seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas study tours, along with travel
and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
