OCIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
Loan Agreement
(Second Connectivity Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 20 , 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
November 20, 2013 
2 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated November 20, 2013, entered into between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter
alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million United States Dollars
(US$300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%). The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the
Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by
the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of
the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
November 20, 2013 
3 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement
and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the
Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time
to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE II -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
November 20, 2013 
4 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: A situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: The Bank is satisfied
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 
45799 
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
November 20, 2013 
5 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-D
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By: 
...
Authorized Representative
Name: Robert Pakpahan
Title: 
Expert Staff of Minister
of Finance on State Revenue
With Full Mandate as
DG of Debt Management
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR -
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By: 
o-CC
Aut 
rin ed Representative
Name: 
eH 
-
]Afo-
Tidle: 
AtiCPlv 
CowrLy 
C>izatrD-
November 20, 2013 
6 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar 1: Strengthening National Coordination and Regulation
1. 
The Borrower has signed a Minister of Finance Regulation on operational procedures to
implement Minister of Finance Regulation No. 223/2012 on the channeling of government
funds to public-private partnership projects in infrastructure.
Pillar 2: Strengthening Intra-Island Connectivity
2. 
The Borrower, through the National Land Agency, has assigned roles to, and has
established the processes for, the relevant agencies of the Borrower when acquiring land for
public purpose development through the issuance of technical guidelines (Regulation of the
Head of BPN No.5/2012) to implement Law No. 212012 and Presidential Regulation No.
71/2012.
3. 
The Borrower has issued a Minister of Finance Regulation (No.13/PMK.02/2013) stating
which expenditures related to land acquisition for public purpose development are eligible
to be covered by the national state budget, and the Borrower has issued a Minister of Home
Affairs Regulation (No.72/2012) stating which expenditures related to land acquisition for
public purpose development are eligible to be covered by local government budgets.
4. 
The Borrower has issued guidelines (Minister of Transportation Regulations PM.10/2013
and PM.56/2013) for the provision and reimbursement of Public Service Obligation in the
railway sector to provide affordable passenger railway services.
5. 
The Borrower has issued guidelines for provision of: (i) Infrastructure Maintenance
Operation (Minister of Transportation Regulation PM.67/2013); and (ii) Track Access
Charges (Minister of Transportation Regulation PM.62/2013) to support the restructuring
process in the railway sector as mandated by the Borrower's Law No. 23/2007 and by
Presidential Regulation (No. 53/2012).
Pillar 3: Improving Inter-island Connectivity
6. 
The Borrower has completed the identification of the remote districts (kabupaten) to be
covered by the ICT Fund and has estimated the budget requirements for the first phase of
telecommunications broadband projects to be financed by the ICT Fund.
7. 
The Borrower has issued Minister of Transportation Regulation No, KP414/2013
establishing a classification and location for all Indonesian sea ports based on traffic
projections in order to establish development plans for each individual sea port for the next
twenty years.
. November 20, 2013 
7 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
Pillar 4: Improving International Connectivity
8. 
The Borrower has expanded the Indonesia National Single Window System by linking the
requests for permits made to the Ministry of Trade and the Agency for Plant Quarantine
through the Single Sign-On Mechanism to streamline and make more efficient the export
and import processes and the quarantine procedures.
9. 
The Borrower has decided the legal nature of the agency to be created for the management
of the Indonesia National Single Window System.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice
to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in United States Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
300,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the
Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by
the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
I. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount
of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment
to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is April 30, 2014.
November 20, 2013 
8 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 January, 2023 
3.46%
15 July, 2023 
3.55%
15 Januay, 2024 
3.64%
15 July, 2024 
3.73%
15 January, 2025 
3.82%
15 July, 2025 
3.92%
15 January, 2026 
4.01%
15 July, 2026 
4.11%
15 January, 2027 
4.22%
15 July, 2027 
4.32%
15 January, 2028 
4.43%
15 July, 2028 
4.54%
15 January, 2029 
4.65%
15 July, 2029 
4.77%
15 January, 2030 
4.89%
15 July, 2030 
5.01%
15 January, 2031 
5.14%
15 July, 2031 
5.27%
15 January, 2032 
5.40%
15 July, 2032 
5.53%
15 January, 2033 
5.67%
15 July, 2033 
5.92%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
November 20, 2013 
9 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date,
such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal
and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to
the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
November 20, 2013 
10 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
APPENDIX
Section L Definitions
1. 
"Agency for Plant Quarantine" means Badan Karantina Tanaman, the Borrower's agency for
plan quarantine, or any successor thereto.
2. 
"Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs" means Kementerian Koordinator Bidang
Perekonomian, the Borrower's Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs, or any successor
thereto.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed or
agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed to
finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
November 20, 2013 
11 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices
when they occur.
4. 
"Financial Notes and Draft Budget" means the annual financial notes and draft budget of the
Borrower, which is presented by the President to the Borrower's parliament for approval.
5. 
"Fiscal Policy Office" means Badan Kebyakan Fiskal, the fiscal policy unit of the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower or any successor thereto.
6. 
"Fr' means the Borrower's fiscal year, ending on December 31 of each year.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
8. 
"ICT Fund" means the Borrower's mechanism for funding information and communication
technology (ICT) investments in unserved and underserved areas which are commercially
less viable, and which are financed by the Borrower through a levy on the telecom industry.
9. 
"Indonesia National Single Window" means the Borrower's national trade facilitation system
that enables single submission of data and information, single and synchronous processing of
data and information and single decision-making for customs release and clearance of cargo.
10. 
"Infrastructure Maintenance Operation" means any activity to repair or maintain the working
conditions of railway infrastructure to ensure their operational viability.
11. 
"Minister of Finance" means the head of the Ministry of Finance.
12. 
"Minister of Finance Decree" means Keputusan Menteri Keuangan, a decree issued by the
Minister of Finance of the Borrower.
13. 
"Minister of Home Affairs" means the head of the Ministry of Home Affairs.
14. 
"Minister of Transportation" means the head of the Ministry of Transportation.
November 20, 2013 
12 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
15. 
"Ministerial Regulation" means Peraturan Menteri, a regulation issued by a Minister of the
Borrower.
16. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto.
17. 
"Ministry of Home Affairs" means the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs or any
successor thereto.
18. 
"Ministry of Trade" means the Borrower's Ministry of Trade or any successor thereto.
19. 
"Ministry of Transportation" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transportation or any
successor thereto.
20. 
"National Land Agency" means Badan Pertanahan Nasional (BPN), the Borrower's national
land agency, or any successor thereto.
21. 
"Presidential Decree" means Keputusan Presiden, a decree issued by the President of the
Borrower.
22. 
"Presidential Regulation" means Peraturan Presiden (Perpres), a presidential regulation of
the Borrower.
23. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth
and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated
September 23, 2013 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the
Program during its execution.
24. 
"Public Service Obligation" means an arrangement in which the Borrower covers the
difference between the cost of a public product or service and the fee charged by a company
to provide said product or service to the public, in order to ensure the delivery and
affordability of said product or service to the public.
25. 
"Regulation of Head of BPN" means Peraturan Kepala BPN, a regulation issued by the head
of the National Land Agency.
26. 
"Single Sign-On Mechanism" means the mechanism under the Indonesia National Single
Window whereby a single action of user authentication and authorization can permit a user to
access all public services by multiple government agencies.
27. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Track Access Charges" means charges to railway operators for using railway infrastructure.
November 20, 2013 
13 of 14 
LOAN NUMBER 8305-ID
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article V are
renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two
years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program,
the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to the
Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
November 20, 2013 
14 of 14 
LOAN NiMBER 8305-ID
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified to
read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General Conditions
are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
