LOAN NUMBER 8281BY
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Energy Efficiency Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2013
LOAN NUMBER 8281BY
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
TCVC 
, 2013, between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety million Dollars (USD
90,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the EED, in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV- REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) The Mogilevenergo shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Mogilevenergo Subsidiary Agreement.
-2-
(b) The Gomelenergo shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Gomelenergo Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of, namely that any of the events
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) The Mogilevenergo Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of
the Borrower and the Mogilevenergo; and
(b) The Gomelenergo Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Gomelenergo.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a) The Mogilevenergo Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by the Borrower and the Mogilevenergo and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Mogilevenergo in accordance with its terms; and
(b) The Gomelenergo Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower and the Gomelenergo and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
the Gomelenergo in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Council of Ministers
House of Government
Minsk, 220010
11 Sovetskaya Street
Republic of Belarus
Facsimile:
375 17 2226665
-3-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Minsk, Republic of Belarus, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
E T 
/V/VkO
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
c
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve energy efficiency in heat and power
generation in Selected Towns in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as
amended hereby solely for purposes of the Loan:
Part I: Conversion of Steam Turbine Based Combined Heat and Power Plants to
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine Combined Heat and Power Plants
Provision of technical assistance, works, goods and training for conversion of
existing steam turbine based combined heat and power plants in the Selected Towns to
combined cycle gas turbine combined heat and power plants.
Part II: Design and Supervision Consultancy
Provision of technical assistance for the design and engineering of new plants to
be financed under Part I of the Project.
Part III: Project Implementation and Management
Provision of goods, technical assistance and training to the PMU to assist in the
Project implementation, coordination and management.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The 
Borrower, 
through 
the 
EED, 
with 
the 
assistance 
of 
the
Belinvestenergoberezhenie (the PMU), 
shall oversee the overall Project
implementation and management with due diligence and efficiency.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU during the Project implementation with
staff whose qualification and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank
and resources adequate to enable it to effectively implement the Project which
shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project, including
consolidated financial and procurement management and other Project-related
tasks.
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the EED: (i) take action to ensure that the POM is
applied and followed at all times in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of the Project; and (ii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the
POM without the prior approval of the Bank. In case of any conflict between the
terms of this Agreement and those of the POM, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Part I Project Coordinators until completion of
the Project, who shall work in close cooperation with the PMU, and be responsible
for the coordination of Part I Project activities implementation.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreements:
1 .
For the purposes of carrying out Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) enter into an agreement with the Mogilevenergo, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (the "Mogilevenergo Subsidiary Agreement"), which
shall include: (i) Mogilevenergo's repayment obligations (including payment
of interest and other charges thereon) to the Borrower for the portion of the
Loan proceeds provided for the carrying out of its respective part of the
activities under Part I of the Project; and (ii) their respective roles and
responsibilities regarding the implementation of Part I of the Project, as set
forth in the POM;
(b) enter into an agreement with the Gomelenergo, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, (the "Gomelenergo Subsidiary Agreement"), which
shall include: (i) Gomelenergo's repayment obligations (including payment
-6-
of interest and other charges thereon) to the Borrower for the portion of the
Loan proceeds provided for the carrying out of its respective part of the
activities under Part I of the Project; and (ii) their respective roles and
responsibilities regarding the implementation of Part I of the Project, as set
forth in the POM; and
(c) exercise its rights and carry out its obligation under the Mogilevenergo
Subsidiary Agreement, or the Gomelenergo Subsidiary Agreement, as the
case may be, in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive
or fail to enforce the Mogilevenergo 
Subsidiary Agreement or the
Gomelenergo Subsidiary Agreement, or any of their provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, through EED, ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with each respective EMP, and all measures necessary for the
carrying out of the EMPs shall be taken in a timely manner. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the EMPs or any provision thereof.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through EED, ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under Part II of the
Project, shall be satisfactory to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference
shall require that the advice conveyed through such technical assistance be
consistent with the requirements of the Bank's Safeguard Policies.
E. 
Other Undertakings
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the counterpart funds required
for the implementation of the Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
-7-
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the pertinent quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be: (a) furnished to
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period; and (b) made
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
-8-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) 
Shopping
(b) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-Based selection
(b) 
Selection Under Fixed Budget
(c) 
Least-Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification
(e) 
Single Source Selection
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-9-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(Inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, works, 
89,775,000 
100%
consultants'
services (including
audits) and
Training under the
Project
(2) 
(Front-end Fee) 
225,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
90,0000
3. 
For purposes of this Section, the term "Training" 
means Project related
expenditures (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the PMU in
connection with the carrying out of seminars and workshops, including the
reasonable travel costs (e.g. accommodation, transportation costs and per diem,
inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), catering, rental of training
-10-
facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training
materials.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
5%
Beginning August 15, 2019
through February 15, 2029
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 12-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 13 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the Bank operational policies and procedures
set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under Ops/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.36, 4.09,
4.11, 4.10, 4.12, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by the World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 2011.
5. 
"EED" means the Energy Efficiency Department of the State Standardization
Committee of the Borrower, which is responsible for carrying out state policies
for energy savings and executing state supervision over the rational use of fuel
and heat and electric energy pursuant to the Borrower's Decree of the President
No. 289, dated May 5, 2006 and a Resolution No. 981, dated July 31, 2006 of the
Borrower's Council of Ministers.
6. 
"EMPs" means the environmental management plans prepared by the Borrower,
through EED, and satisfactory to the Bank for the sites in Mogilev and Gomel,
dated October 25, 2012 and March 5, 2013, respectively, under Part I of the
Project, which set out the agreed environmental protection/mitigation measures
to be implemented and monitored by the Borrower under said Part of the Project.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"Gomelenergo" means the Gomel Republican Unitary Energy Enterprise of the
Borrower established by Decision No.686 dated September 27, 2005 of the
Gomel Oblast Administration, and which is part of the Belarus State Energy
Holding under the Ministry of Energy of the Borrower.
9. 
"Gomelenergo Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section I.B.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said agreement may be
amended with the agreement of the Bank.
- 14 -
10. 
"Mogilevenergo" means the Mogilev Republican Unitary Energy Enterprise of
the Borrower established by a Decision No.12 -6 dated May 25, 2000 of the
Mogilev Oblast Administration, and which is a part of the Belarus State Energo
Holding under the Ministry of Energy of the Borrower.
11. 
"Mogilevenetgo Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section I.B.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said agreement may be
amended with the agreement of the Bank.
12. 
"Original Project" means the project set forth in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
13. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the
Republic of Belarus and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, dated June 8, 2009 for the Energy efficiency Project (Loan No.
7698 BY).
14. 
"PMU" or 
"Belinvestenergosberezhenie", means 
the 
"Investment 
and
Consultative Unitary Enterprise", the Project management unit established in
accordance with a Regulation No. 1311 of the Council of Ministers of the
Borrower, dated October 3, 1997, which is responsible for the implementation
and management of the Project.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers", dated January 2011.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 6, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"Project Coordinators" means the Part I Project Coordinators appointed by
Decree No 9 of the Head of the EED under the State Standardization Committee
of the Borrower dated March 5, 2009; and by a Decree No. 101 of the Director
General of Mogilevenergo dated March 6, 2013; and by a Decree No. 185 of the
Director General of Gomelenergo dated March 5, 2013, and referred to in Section
I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
18. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual adopted by EED
dated April 4, 2013, referred to in Section I.A. 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
describing the procedures for implementation of the Project including, inter alia:
(i) procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial
management, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; and (ii) sample
formats for annual reports, as the same may be updated from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank.
- 15 -
19. 
"Selected Towns" means the cities of Mogilev and Gomel within the Borrower's
territory; and any other city within the Borrower's territory, as approved by the
Bank.
- 16 -
