DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8222-PE
Loan Agreement
(Social Inelusin Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONA 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
A D DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
L 3AN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
lar pJ , 
2013, between REPUBLIC OF PERU
("Borrower") anc the wrPRN/TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GETERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Condilions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part )f this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context reqL ires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meai,ings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agre.ment.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lond t > the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this A&reen.ent, the amount of ten million Dollars ($ 10,000,000),
as such amount me y bi; converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accorcanct with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist n fi iancing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreeme:-t ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may witt draw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking ariy ai ction required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Borrower'; Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower's
Director of Indebtedness .md Public Treasury (DGETP), or any person whom any
of them shall designite in writing.
2.03. 
The Frort-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of tie L an amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 day; affi r the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by he Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon i Co iversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interet pa:'able by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such am:3unt shall te de:ermined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the Gene al Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withcrawi Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues 'or a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are Marc'i 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount 3f tI.e Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set fori h in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower nay a: any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of ihe Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of :he I oan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Lot n, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a char ge of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a lariable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion o F the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding fro n a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spreac to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawr and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to E Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
sett ng of limits on I 5e Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any port on (f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the V arial le Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion req uested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the I Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in 1he General Con litions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Articl,, IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTI CLE IH -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declare: its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shill cirry the Project, through UCPS, with the technical
participation of MIDI S, f ursuant to the provisions of the Inter-institutional
Agreernent, and in ac-ord, nce with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without li,mitation upon tie provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as 1:he Borrowcr an I the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project i, carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agr.eme nt.
-2-
ARTICLK IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Addi:ional Evenis of Suspension consist of the following, namely that the
MIDIS Legislation has bei n amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materiflly and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
Borrower to perform tny cf its obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Evenis of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 1.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
I FFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Addi:ional Cond tion of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Inter-institutional Agrt ement has been signed by the parties thereto.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the I rovisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninet 1 (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eigfhteon (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on June 13, 014.
ARTICLE V I- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Repr,-sen ative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided
that the Borrower's E irecl r of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or
herself, represent the Bor ower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are
considered of an adrinistrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such
Director of an amenc men: shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that
any such amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in
nature.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Addiess i;:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Facsimilc: 
(511 626 -9921
-3-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Rocon! truction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of Americi.
Cable address: 
Tele,: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
484 23(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64 1,-5(MCI)
AGREED at 
,z 
YjLA., 
as of the day
and year first above written.
REP JBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
INT -RNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-4-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Proj ect is to strengthen MIDIS' systems and capacity to
improve the performance of MU IIS' Programs and to monitor the Borrower's social
inclusion policy.
The Project consists c f the following parts:
Part 1. Quality Improvement of IV IDIS' Programs
Provision of support :0 de sign and pilot activities aimed at improving the quality
control of MIDIS Programs by:
1. Developing user's pirtici)ation and accountability mechanisms for the MIDIS'
Programs, through, inter dia: (i) the development of culturally adequate norms,
standards, protocols, did ictic materials and communication tools to promote
transpareicy and account ibility at the school and district level for Qali Warma;
(ii) the development, tOsting and piloting of a users' participation and
accountability mechinisn to collect feedback from users of MIDIS' Programs;
and (iii) the improvement of MIDIS' grievance mechanisms.
2. 
Designing and piloting local coordination methodologies and tools for MIDIS'
Programs.
3. 
Improving SISFOH s in temal and external communication and coordination
mechanims.
4. Strengthening administra ive processes of MIDIS' Programs, through, inter alia:
(i) the design and pilotin, of alternative money transfer systems for Pensidn 65
and Qali Warma; (ii) the design and piloting of alternative management models
and nutritional quality control mechanisms for Qali Warma; and (iii) the
development of inf armf tion tools to detect and address deficiencies in the
provision of health, nutr tion and education services in areas of intervention of
Juntos.
Part 2. Imprgvement of Knowled re Management Information and Communication
Provisio- of support to s rengthen MIDIS' information system to collect, process
and produce date. to enhance the lecision-making processes within SINADIS by:
1. Designing an integ ,ated multi-sectoral information platform for social policy
decision making, includi ig the development of data models.
-5-
2. Strengthening the managemei it information systems of Qali Warma and Pensidn
65.
3. Improving MIDIS' administ ative and communication systems, through, inter
alia: (a) the carrying out of a capacity building program for MIDIS' staff; (b) the
development of a communic;ition strategy for the MIDIS' social inclusion plan
(Crecer para Incluir); (c) the design of an annual dissemination and
communications plan; arid (I) the development of an internal communication
plan for MID IS' staff.
Part 3. Strengthening of MIDS Capacity on Result Orientation, Monitoring and
Evaluation
Provision of support to deve top and implement a social policy monitoring and
evaluation system by:
1. Developing tools to coll.ct c ata and analyze indicators of social policies within
SINADIS, including MIDIS' Programs, through, inter alia: (a) the development
of a monitoring dashboa -d fo chronic infant malnutrition and the mechanisms to
analyze "ad use the info rmat ion produced by said dashboard; (b) the creation of
an elderly observatory t> support the development of an integrated strategy for
the elderly; (c) the systurmat: zation of pilot experiences of application of social
policy.
2. Carrying out evaluations of th ie Borrower's social policy and programs.
Part 4. Strengthening, of Human Zeso irce Management and Capacity
Provision of support to desig i and implement a continuous capacity building and
training program for public officials i -nplementing social policy by:
1. Designing end carryin,, oL t capacity-building activities for public officials
involved in policy plan .ing, budgeting and implementation of social inclusion
programs.
2. Creating a giidance and coui iseling program for local Juntos promoters, through,
inter alia, :he developmen: of capacity building activities and educational
materials.
3. Developing a capacity-uild ng and certification program for qualified local and
regional coaching profossio ials to create a network of MIDIS-certified local
professionals.
Part 5. Support gf Project Admin istre tion
Carrying out of activities re ated to the management and implementation of the
Project.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementaton ) rrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangoimeits
1 
(a) 
For purposes of tL e carrying out of the fiduciary aspects of the Project,
the Borrowei, th ough MEF, shall operate and maintain, until the
completion o:' the execution of the Project, a Project coordination unit
(UCPS), with funi tions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, as
set forth in th,e Op -rational Manual.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MEF, shall maintain the UCPS staffed with
qualified and exT erienced staff in adequate numbers, including with
procurement nd :inancial management qualifications, all with terms of
reference sati:;fact)ry to the Bank.
2. 
No later than Januari 31, 2013, the Borrower, through MIDIS, shall hire and
thereafter maintain diring the execution of the Project, a Project Coordinator,
with functions, responsibilities, qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank, as set forth in the O erational Manual.
B. 
Inter-institutional Aree nent
1 .
To facilitate the carring out of the Project, the Borrower, through UCPS and
MIDIS, shall enter into an inter-institutional agreement ("Inter-institutional
Agreement"), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in
the Operational Mam al, i tcluding, inter alia: (a) the obligation of UCPS to carry
out the fiduciary asf ects of the Project, in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, the Operation il Manual, and the Anti-corruption Guidelines; and (b)
the obligation of MIDIS to carry out the technical aspects of the Project, in
accordance with the term; of this Agreement, the Operational Manual, and the
Anti-corruption Guid-line;.
2. 
Except as the Bank shal I otherwise agree, the Borrower, through UCPS and
MIDIS, shall not ass gn, amend, abrogate, waive terminate or fail to enforce the
Inter-institutional Ag-eem.ent or any of its provisions.
-7-
C. 
Operational Manual
1 
The Borrower, though MIMIS and UCPS, shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the prcvisi<ns of a manual (the Operational Manual), which
shall include, inter alic: (a 
a detailed description of Project activities and
institutional arrangemerts J:r the Project; (b) the Project administrative,
accounting, auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow aspects in relation
thereto), procurement an I dis >ursement procedures; (c) the monitoring indicators
for the Project; (d) the institr ional and administrative mechanisms established to
ensure inter-institutional coordination, including the functions, responsibilities
and staffing requiremen:s of MIDIS and UCPS under the Project; and (f) the
Indigenous Peoples' Strategy
2. 
Except as the Borrowe- an, I the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower, through MIDI S an 1 UCPS, shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive
or otherwise fail to enfor-.e th , Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
3. 
In case of any conflict betwt en the terms of the Operational Manual, the Inter-
institutional Agreement, and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MID] S and UCPS, shall ensure that the Project is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
Without limitation to tL e pr visions of Section I.C.1 (f) of this Schedule, the
Borrower, through MIDIS a: d UCPS, shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Indigenous Peo )les' Strategy.
Section II. 
roject Monitor dM&Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through UC )S with the support of MIDIS, shall monitor and
evaluate the progress o the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of S -ctio 1 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
the indicators set forth in tie Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one :aler dar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than one month aftir th< end of the period covered by such report.
-8-
B. 
Financial Management, financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, throu.h I 'CPS, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management syst:m in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditicons.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through UCPS, shall prepa e and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report
interim un audited finaicial reports for the Project covering the calendar semester,
in form and substance satis "actory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through U CPS, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provi;ions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audil of the Fina icial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The at dite. Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank iot l iter than six months after the end of such period.
Section M. 
Piocurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods and Non-congulti ig Services. All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project an I to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordanc- with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procuieme it Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proc ceds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set iorth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with tLe pri ivisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitali: ed terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement me:hods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts iefer to the c orre: ponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guideli ies, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the caso ma: be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Pr )curement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Computitiv e Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and ion-(onsulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded cn the basis of Ii Prnational Competitive Bidding procedures.
-9-
2. 
Other Methods of Proc iren ent of Goods, and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other tha i International Competitive Bidding, may be used
for procurement of goods 
nd non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement I lan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bic ding
(b) Shopping
(c)_Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Mlethods of Froci rement of Consultants' Services
1I 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' seivice; shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-bastd Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procur ment of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than C ualit i and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consulta.its' .ervices for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurment Method
(a) Quality-3ased Selection
(b) Selection based on tie Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Single-source Selection c fconsulting firms
(d) Least Cost Selectior
(e) Selection under Fixt d Bt dget
(f) Procedures set forth in p iragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Indii idual Consultants
(g) Single-Source Proc,-duri s for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D). 
Review by the Bank of Proc trement Decisions
The Procurement Plan st all s At forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All ot ter contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
F.. 
Special Provisions
I. 
In addition and without timit ition or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this Section or the Proct rement Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern the procurement of ;oods, and non consulting services with National
Competitive Bidding ("NICB'):
-10-
(a) 
Foreign biddl,rs 
hall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of partic pation in the selection process.
(b) 
No reference vall te shall be required for publication in the bidding
documents or used for the purpose of bid evaluation.
(c) 
Award of coitrac s shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever
appropriate, ;hall take into account factors that can be quantified
otjectively, aid tf e procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed
in the invitation to bid.
(d) 
Foreign biddors s iall be allowed to submit a bid under NCB without
restriction and shall not be subject to any unjustified requirement which
will affect their atility to bid such as, but not limited to, the requirement
to authenticat (le,-ralizar) their bidding documents or any documentation
related to such bidding documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the
Ministry of Foreig i Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a prerequisite
for bidding.
(e) 
The Borrow -r, 1 hrough the UCPS, 
shall use standard bidding
documents and sta idard evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
In addition and withcut lii nitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this Section or the C )nsultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern all employme it of Jonsultants:
(a) 
Foreign cons iltan :s shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of partic ipation in the selection process.
(b) 
Foreign cons,iltan:s shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any
documentation rel ited to their participation in the selection process with
Peruvian Coiisula es, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian
authorities, a. a cc ndition of participation in said selection process.
(c) 
The Borrowor, tirough the UCPS, shall use standard requests for
proposals anc star dard evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) 
Foreign cons iltan :s, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to
pay fees to ft e Pe -uvian Consultants' Association that are different from
those required for Peruvian consultants.
(e) 
No consultant hire d for the Project, at the time he or she is carrying out
his or her ccntra<tual obligations as consultant, may hold civil service
office or any othe position in any agency or entity of the Borrower, nor
-11-
shall such consu tant have any right to re-entry into any such office or
position upon the con- Jusion of his or her consulting services.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may with Iraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions o," Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as tho Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including th. "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such i istructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table spec fies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the pro,:eed!, of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each :ategory, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Exrendi ures in each Category.
Amo int of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(exv -essed in USDJ 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
10,000,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services, Operating Costs
and Training under :he
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
10,000,000
For purposes of this paragraph:
(a) 
the term "Operating Costs" n teans the incremental expenses incurred on account
of Project implementation, ncluding office equipment, communication costs,
office administration ccsts, :ravel, and supervision costs of locally contracted
employees; and
(b) 
the term ""raining" 
ntean! reasonable expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services anc non -consulting services) for: (a) travel, room, board and
per diem expenditures inei rred by trainers (if applicable) and trainees in
connection with the carriing )ut of training activities; (b) course fees; (c) training
facility rentals; and (d) trair ing material preparation, acquisition, reproduction
and distribution expense ;.
-12-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provi ions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loat. Ac< ount until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments madi prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closi:ig Date is Januaiy 31, 2017.
Section V. 
Other Under takii a
Without limitations to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall irovi le, promptly as needed, an amount of $ 4,295,000
equivalenr as Project couiterpart funds, as such amount may be amended from
time to time with the tgret ment of the Bank.
-13-
SCHEDULE3
Amoi tization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total pi incil ial amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installmint S iare"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the firs. Pri: icipal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Bor ower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank 'y r ultiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repa.-able amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in para rraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentalel
On each March 15 and Septembei 15
Beginning March 15, 2018
through March 15, 2020 
16.67%
On September 15, 2020 
16.65%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Lo, n ha ve not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the princ pal mount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date hall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To tfle extent thzt an: proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Princi ,al 
Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
With drawn Loan Bah nce as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount wit hdra vn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amouits determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such mithdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installme it Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Pri icipal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denomi iatoi of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shar -s fc r Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts rc payable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to iii paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion appl es.
-14-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of tt.e Lc an withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and o itstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following tht dai e of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date followina the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstand:ng tie provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time -he I lank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are i: suec on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions o 
su :h sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals riade after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
NotwithstAnding the provi 3ions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of a! I or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, he a nount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Princil al Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be detcrmin ed by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomintion immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that refect:, the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Banl: un ler the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversicn; or (ii) if the I lank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the excha ige r ate component of the Screen Rate.
S. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Ba lance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Scht dule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Curren y, 
o as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-15-
PPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corrup:ion 
Guidelines' 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Cc rrupi ion in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated Oc ober 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" treans a category ;et forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"CENAN" means Centrc National de Alimentaci6n y Nutricidn, the Borrower's
National Cener for Food and -utrition within its Ministry of Health.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" mea is the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRE Lo; ns and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated Januar, 2011.
5. 
"Cuna M6s" means Pr9gra va Nacional Cuna Mds, the Borrower's social
inclusion program created pu -suant to the Borrower's Supreme Decree No 003-
2012-MIDIS. dated Mar:h 2 1, 2012, and published in the Borrower's Official
Gazette on March 23, 20 12, a amended to the date of this Agreement.
6. 
"FONCODES" means I'ondo de Cooperaci6n para el Desarrollo Social, the
Borrower's Cooperation Fun I for Social Development created pursuant to the
Borrower's Legislative Decre. No 657, dated August 14, 1991, and published in
the Borrower's Official 3aze te on August 15, 1991, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
? 
"General Conditions" neans the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Developmeni: General Condit ons for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"Indigenous Peoples' Stiateg," means the Borrower's strategy dated October 29,
2012, acceplable to the Ban k, published on October 30, 2012, referred to in
Section LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, detailing measures to mitigate any
adverse impe.ct on indigenous peoples as a result of any activity carried out under
the Project and to ensure that Lhey benefit from the Project.
9. 
"Inter-institutional Agrecmen L" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agree neni
10. 
"JUNTOS" means Prcgrawa Nacional de Apoyo a los Mds Pobres, the
Borrower's social inclus on p rogram created pursuant to the Borrower's Supreme
Decree No 032-2005-PC VI, d ited April 6, 2005, and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on August 8, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
-16-
11. 
"MEF" means Ministorio le Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of
Economy and Finance.
12. 
"MIDIS" means Min steri 9 de Desarrollo e Inclusi6n Social, the Borrower's
Ministry of Development a ad Social Inclusion created by the MIDIS Legislation.
13. 
"MIDIS Legislation" meaas Ley de Creaci6n, Organizaci6n y Funciones del
Ministerio de Desarrollo ? Inclusion Social - MIDIS, the Borrower's Law No
29792, dated October 20, 011, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on Decem ber 9, 2011, as a nended to the date of this Agreement.
14. 
"MIDIS' Programs" mea is the following social inclusion programs: Juntos,
Pensi6n 65, Qali War na, I ONCODES, and Cuna Mds.
15. 
"MINAG" means A fMnis4 erio de Agricultura, the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture.
16. 
"MINED" means Minis, erio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of
Education.
17. 
"Operational Manua" 
rr eans the manual satisfactory to the Bank, dated
November 6, 2012, referre I to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as
such manual may be emen led from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
18. 
"Pensi6n 55" means irogama Nacional de Asistencia Solidaria, the Borrower's
social inclusion progr im c -eated pursuant to the Borrower's Supreme Decree No.
081-201 1-PCM dated October 19, 2011, and published in the Borrower's Official
Gazette on October 1'), 20 .1 as amended to the date of this Agreement.
19. 
"Procurement Guidel nes" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting S ervii;es under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" d ited January 2011.
20. 
"Procurement Plan" mea is the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 6, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and parag aph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Qali Warma" mean, Pro ,rama Nacional de Alimentaci6n Escolar Qali Warma,
the Borrower's social in ,lusion program created pursuant to the Borrower's
Supreme Decree No. 008- 2012-MIDIS, dated May 30, 2012 and published in the
Borrower's Official 3aze tte on May 31, 2012, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
-17-
22. 
"SINADIS" means Sist ma Vacional de Desarrollo e Inclusidn Social, the
Borrower's National Sy item for Development and Social Inclusion created
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 29792, dated October 19, 2011 and
published in the Borrowe -'s C Fficial Gazette on October 20, 2011, as amended to
the date of this Agreemert.
23. 
"SISFOH" means Sistema de Focalizaci6n de Hogares, the Borrower's
Household Targeting S) sterr created pursuant to the Borrower's Ministerial
Resolution No. 399-200' -PC* A dated December 20, 2004 and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazotte <n December 22, 2004, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
24. 
"UCPS" means Unidad dt Coordinaci6n de Pristamos Sectoriales, the
Borrower's Coordination Uni for Sectorial Loans within MEF, created pursuant
to the Borrower's Decre,- (D 'creto Ley) No 25535, dated June 5, 1992, or any
other successor thereto.
-18-
