DOCUMETS
LOAN NUMBER 8226-PE
Lois Agreement
(E asic Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERIS ATION LL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreoment dated 
-^^ -
1 
, 2013 between REPUBLIC OF
PERU ("Borower") anc7 
) IN TERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVEOPMENT i"Bank" . The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:
AWTICLE I -
GE"ERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The Peneral Cond'tion:. (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
cons#tuto an inte:,ral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unle$s the conext req,iires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agrement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the 
ppendix to I his Agruement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The 3ank agrees to lend o the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
refer ed to in t lis Agreement, the amount of twenty five million Dollars
($25 000,000), ai such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currncy Conve sioa in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agre ment ("Lo.n":, to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this agre ement ('Project').
2.02. 
The Borrower rmiay wit idraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Sc hedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of takii ng -ny action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the B rrmwer's Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower's
Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury (DGETP), or any person whom any
of th;m !;hall designite in writing.
2.03. 
The ront-end Fte payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
perc nt (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not I ler than 60 da) s afthr the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payiblo by ihe Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Re 'erence 1,ate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Cc nversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loart, the inere;t payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such, amount shall be d( termined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Artile IV of tie General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amoOnt of the Withdrawa Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
pay eni continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrow r shall insi eac be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The PaXment Dates are Mar.h 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The prncipal amolint of he Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisi4ns of Schedule 3 to his Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
Thc Borroy er nay it any time request any of the following Conversions
of the term! of the uoan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a changi of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Lc an, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; ( ii) a cha nge of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portio:i cf tbe principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding frcm a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any )orl ion f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to i Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variabl a S )reac, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withlrawa and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Sp read to t Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any por:ion >f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the :stablishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on th e Varia'le Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the 3ank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the Gen eral Cor ditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of irtic e IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines
ARTI CLE m -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The B>rrower dec ares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the
Progran. To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through
MINE)U, with t!ie over ill technical coordination of UMC, and with the
assistance of: (i) UMC fo: Part 1 of the Project; (ii) DEI for Part 1(b) of the
Projec: joi:.tly witf IUIC; (iii) DIDE, DIGEDD and DIGEDIE for Part 2 of the
Projec; and (iv) JE' for Part 3 of the Project, all in accordance with the
provisions of Artic e V of t ,e General Conditions.
-2-
3.02. 
Without Iimitaticn upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
exceot as the Borrower i nd the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to thi: Agreerient.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Addtional Concitior of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Cperational M fan ual I as been adopted by the Borrower, through MINEDU, in
a m 
et acceptable to the Bank.
4.02. 
Without prejudic - to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the c ate nine ty (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than thke cighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on Jul) 17, 2014.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The 3orrower's -epi esen tative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided
that ihe Borrowe 's Dire<tor of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or
herstlf, iepreseni tho Boi rower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are
cons dered of at administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such
Director of an ai mendme: kt shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that
any ;uch ament me it is considered to be administrative and non-financial in
natue.
5.02. 
The 3orrower's kdc ress is:
Ministry of Ecor om y an(d Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Facsimile: 
151 ) 625-9921
5.03. 
The Bank's Add!ess is:
International Bank f 3r Riconstruction and Development
181 HStreet, b.W
Wasiin&ton, D.C. 2)433
Unitld States of Arr eric.
Cable aedress: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INT3AFRAD 
:!48423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Wahington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGRE4D at 
,L 
B 
,as 
of the
day and year fir t above wri ten.
RE] IUBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RE, CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
-4-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The Objective of tho Project is to improve MINEDU's capacity to evaluate
student learnig, instructional pra tice, and school leadership in Basic Education.
The Project consi: ts of th( following parts:
Part 1: Evalutina Studerr Learnii g
Provision of 4upport for tie implementation of Eligible Budget Activities supporting the
Program, including, intei alPa: (0) the scale up of the existing second grade student
assessment to cover additic nal grades and subject areas in Primary Education and
Secondary Iducation szhcols; 
(b) 
the introduction of internationally validated
methodologies for measuring child development outcomes and quality of services in
Preschool E(ucat:ion; an ] (c) th:, provision of support for the Borrower's continued
participation n internatioaal asse,;sments managed by the OECD and UNESCO in order
to compare tr mdE in natic nal resuLts with international benchmarks.
Part 2: Evaluitini 
strucior al Pi actice and School Leadership
Provision of support for 1 he Implomentation of the Eligible Budget Activities supporting
the Program, including, inger alia, activities to strengthen MINEDU's capacity for
monitoring aid evaluating tLe quality of instructional practice at the classroom level, as
well as, for implementing a (ompetency-based system for selecting and training
candidates to school man; genent positions.
Part 3: Stre I gtheinin@ hNDU', Implementation Capacit
Provision of aupport for 1 he mplomentation of the Eligible Budget Activities, supporting
the Program including, in er alia, activities to strengthen MINEDU's capacity to
improve its cducation m magern nt and monitoring capacity for the activities supported
by the Progr 
and its c per ition al and fiduciary capacity for the implementation of the
Program, inc.udiig the carry ing out of independent technical, financial and procurement
reviews.
-5-.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
m plemen ati on A rrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrai ge nen s
1 
The Borrcwer, t1rough MINEDU, shall operate and maintain, until the
compldtion of the excec Ation of the Project:
(a) 
the UEP, w lhic;h sl all be responsible for the coordination, supervision,
monitoring, evaluaion and fiduciary management of the Project, and
shall, not latur tt an ninety days after the Effective Date, employ
fidaciary sl aff in ad equate numbers acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
the UMC, vhi ch s iall be responsible for the technical management and
coordinaticn :f tie activities implemented under the Project, in
coordinaticn with DIGEDD, DIGEDE, DEI and DIDE.
2. 
The Bfrrower, thr ough MI NEDU, shall ensure that said units have at all times
during Project imp em ental ion, a structure, responsibilities, the necessary budget
and key staff aisigned with functions, experience, responsibilities and
qualifiations accep Ptat le to the Bank, as described in the Operational Manual.
B. 
Imple entation A rra ngeaents
1. 
The Birrower, througi M1NEDU, shall: (a) at least once a year during Project
impler ientation on or aboui: January 30 (and 30 days after the Effective Date for
the fir. t ye ar of Pr :ject im )lementation), prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan
(the P0A), for the Project's operation during the following twelve months of
Project implement; tio i, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonible reques:ed, including detailed description of the activities to be
execut.d under each cf the Eligible Budget Activities specified in Schedule 4 to
this Agretment; and (b) 1htereafter carry out each of the POAs in a manner
satisfa-tory to the .ank.
2. 
The Bbrrower, through MI ,EDU, shall:
(a) 
have all Vie Projec-t procurement records and documentation for each
I calendar year of the Project reviewed, in accordance with appropriate
procurement prin<iples, by independent reviewers acceptable to the
Bank;
-6-
(b) 
furnish to the Ban< as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months alter the e nd of each such year, the procurement external review
prepared by 5 aid ii-dependent reviewers, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bai k s hall I have reasonably requested; and
(c) 
ftrnish to tht Bar k such other information concerning said procurement
records End documentation as the Bank shall from time to time
re asonabl y re ques:.
3. 
The Borrower, thi ou;h M NEDU, shall:
(a) 
not later 1 hat six months after the Effective Date, select and contract an
entity, in depend,mt from the Borrower (Independent Verification
Agency) wilh e) perience and qualifications in the education sector
acceptabl tc the Bank, pursuant to the provisions of Section III of this
Schedule and in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, foi tho car ying out of technical reviews of agreed results during
Project irliplvmentation, particularly focused on the compliance with the
DLIs in accorda nee with the verification protocols included in the
Operatioial Manual;
(b) 
ciuse thc Independent Verification Agency to carry out at least two
technical reviews during Project implementation, and thereafter prepare
a report of ,uch scope and in such detail s the Bank shall reasonably
re.quest;
(c) 
firnish to th,- Ba ik as soon as available, the reports of the Independent
Verificat ion Agen.cy referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d) 
firnish t the B ink such other information concerning said technical
r,-views anc do,umentation as the Bank shall from time to time
rasonab y rique:t.
4. 
With ut .imitation tc the iprovisions of Section IV of this Schedule, the Borrower,
through MINED J, ;hall refrain from presenting the second Loan withdrawal
appli ation in reipeot of Category (1) until a report on the terms referred to in
said. ection has been presented to the Bank.
5. 
The Porrower, tlrou gh M INEDU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by July
30 o: each year cf Projec implementation, a customized disbursement report (the
EBA Report) on terris ac4ceptable to the Bank (which shall include, inter alia, the
spen fing status of th ie El 1A as of the date of presentation of said report), and in
acco dance with tho pr(visions set forth in the Operational Manual and the
addi ional instructions re erred to in Section IV.A. 1 of this Schedule.
-7-
6. 
The Brower, thrc ugl. MINEDU, shall ensure that the Eligible Budget Activities
shall 
omply wit] 
the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the
Operational ManuE 1.
7. 
The B rrower shal. ensure that the budget code numbers indicated in Schedule 4
to thio Agreemeni shall conform to the Borrower's annual budget law. The
Borro*er and the ] Bank ag ee that such budget code numbers may change under
the Borrower's budgct lavi provided, however, that there is no change in the
corresoone ing EBA ai id in the underlying activities to be carried out under such
EBA.
8. 
The Borrower, thr ugh M:NEDU, and the Bank may jointly adjust, once every
year, tie amounts Lssi ned per budget code to the EBAs detailed in Schedule 4 to
this A reement, in a r.ann,r satisfactory to the Bank.
9. 
Withozt limitatioi t 
th: provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General
Cond' ion, 
and p rioz to he second Loan withdrawal under Category (1) (as
referred tc in the Oporational Manual and additional instructions referred to in
Sectio IV .A. 1 of his Sch dule), the Borrower, through MINEDU, shall
(a) 
carry out f mid-tei m review with the Bank on the overall progress in the
execution of the Project and on the accomplishment of the Project
objective, including a review of the existing DLIs to determine if there is
a need to modify or replace the same;
(b) 
nct later th kan thirt y calendar days after the completion of said mid-term
review, prepare ard furnished to the Bank a report of such scope and in
such detai as the I Bank shall reasonably request, and
(c) 
inmediattly t here ifter, implement the recommendations set forth in said
report, all in v mar ner acceptable to the Bank.
10. 
If, at my time, th, Bank letermines that any portion of the Loan proceeds was
used for i:ems imp)roperly procured in violation of Section III to this Schedule,
was rot ased foi Eligib .e Expenditures or, in case of the Eligible Budget
Activ ties under tie Projec t, was not supported by evidence of actual spending by
the Borrc wer un 1er saic Eligible Budget Activities and/or by evidence of
satisf ction of otier crite ia set forth in this Agreement or in the Operational
Manul, the Borrwe. shall promptly refund any such portion to the Bank as the
Bank ihall specify by noti. :e to the Borrower.
-8-
C. 
Anti-' orruption
The $orrower, tb rough NAllNEDU, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with t he provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safequards and Operati mal Manual
(a) 
The Bor rower, through MINEDU, 
shall carry out the Project in
a cordanc.e with:
() 
tteIPPF;and
(i) 
a manua, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual),
which slall include, inter alia: (i) the Performance Indicators;
(i) the )rocedures for the carrying out the monitoring and
e valuiatioa of the Project; (iii) the verification protocols for
corm liance 
and monitoring of DLIs (including 
detailed
c escriptiin of the evidence required for considering the DLI
r iet); (iN) the procurement and financial requirements of the
I roj -ct; i v) the roles and responsibilities of each Implementing
Enti .y; (vi) the IPPF; and (vii) the Project chart of accounts and
iiiteinal ,ontrols, reporting procedures and the format of the
liaterim t naudited financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2
of tf is Sc hedule.
(b) 
In case cf confli<t between the terms of the Operational Manual and this
Agreem nt, the r rovisions of this Agreement shall prevail, and except as
the Borrower anc the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogato, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Operatio aal Man jal or any provision thereof.
Section II. 
Project loiitot ing Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Proj ct Reports
The onower, throt gh IINEDU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Proj(ct and prep ire Projvct Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of 1he Genoral Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators,
the trm it and tie specfi,-ations set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project
Report saall cov,r tie period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the 
anl not latUr tian 60 calendar days after the end of the period covered by
each' such report
-9-
B. 
Finanial:V1anage me mt, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Bprrower, thcugh MINEDU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financ(al managem ent syst.m in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the dencral Con Jiti :ns.
2. 
Without li.mitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MINEDU shall p:epare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project
Reporth not later t ian 60 lays after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudiaed financial rport; for the Project covering the calendar semester, in
form and substancc sa:isfa(tory to the Bank.
3. 
The B rrower, throug;h ?V INEDU, shall have the Financial Statements of the
Project audited in ac-,ord.ance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
Generil Condition t. Each udit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower or such other period to be agreed with the
Bank, whcn applikable. Tie audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Dank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section III. 
Procurem ent
A. 
GeneMhl
1. 
Goodi and Non-i.onsultiag Services. All goods and non-consulting services
requirqd for the Pi oje,t and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be pr cured in accoidance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I cf the Procuieme it Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Cons4ltaitts' Serices. A 1 consultants' services required for the Project and to
be fin nced out of the proc eeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the re uirements tet Jorth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guideines and wi h te pr wisions of this Section.
3. 
Defin tions. The cap itali .ed terms used below in this Section to describe
partic lar procure ner t me thods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contralcts tefer to t e corre,.ponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procutement Gui lelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the cas, ma i be.
B. 
Partiula r Methds of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
Inte6tational Comretitire Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 bel6w, goods ;ind non consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the b isis of I ternational Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods >f Proci irement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
follo*ing methodls, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used
for procurement of goc ds and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the P oci irem nt Plan:
P 
ourment V'etl.od
a 
ational Cormpetitivt Bidding
(b,Coping
c) )irect Contr ictiig
C. 
Partlcular MethAls of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 
Quaity- and Cost-hasedI Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 bel0w, consultnts' ser vices shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basisI of Quality v id Cost based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methbds, other than Qiality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
proc#rement of ionsultai its' services for those contracts which are specified in
the 11ocurement ?lan:
Prq$umment Mfethod
(a) Qua lity-Basd elec ion
(b) $election baed on tie Consultants' Qualifications
c 
in le-sourc e Select .on of consulting firms
d 
ea!st Cost Seletion
e 
election un :er Fixe d Budget
(f) rocedures et forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.5 of the Consultant Guidelines
for :he Seletioa of ndividual Consultants
(g) Single-Source 3roc:dures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
-ll-
D. 
Reviev4 by the Baik c f Pr )curement Decisions
The Prpcurement F [an shal set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank'ยง Prior Revie w. All )ther contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Specia Provisions
1. 
In add Won and wil hou it limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this! Seotion or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern the procuroment o' goods, and non-consulting services under National
Compotiti e Biddin g F roce lures:
(a) 
Foreign b: ddt:rs saall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process.
(b) 
No refere ice valt e shall be required for publication in the bidding
do :uments or used for the purpose of bid evaluation.
(c) 
Award of coritract; shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever
ap propriato, 
hall take into account factors that can be quantified
objectively, and the, procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed
in the invil aticn to bid.
(d) 
Fereign bidders shall be allowed to submit a bid under NCB without
restriction anc shal not be subject to any unjustified requirement which
will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited to, the requirement
to authenti zati (lea afizar) their bidding documents or any documentation
related to ucri bi ding documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the
Borrower'- 1 inistiy of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a
pr-requisil e for bit ding.
(e) 
The Borrc wer, through the UEP, shall use standard bidding documents
and standa rd ovaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
In addition and witho at limlitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in thi 
Section or t eC )nsultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall
gover all employ ner t of :onsultants:
(a) 
Foreign co)nsiltan:S shall not be required to be locally registered as a
ccndition )f Fartic:pation in the selection process.
(b) 
Foreign consultan s shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any
documenttiori rel ited to their participation in the selection process with
-12-
Peruvian Co -sul tes, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any
Peruvian au :hori ies as a condition of participation in said selection
process.
(c) 
The Boi rower, through the UEP, shall use standard requests for
proposal, an I sta idard evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) 
Foreign con 
iulta its, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to
pay fees :o te Poruvian Consultants' Association that are different from
those reqiiir d foi Peruvian consultants.
(e) 
No indiv idu il cc nsultant hired for the Project, at the time he or she is
carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, may hold
civil sern ice office or any other position in any agency or instrumentality
cf the Bcirro wer, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into
any such office cr position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting
services.
Section IV. 
Withdra wa of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The 3orrower may with iraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article I of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
addi ional instructions (Lisbursement Letter) as the Bank shall specify by notice
to tie Borrowe: (incluting the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
Projqcts dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made
applilabl e to thi, A:greei ment pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expnditures as et forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following ta. le spec fies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
finar ced out of the pro .eeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amo nts of the Loaz to cach Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
finaced for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
A mount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
Cy$ego [I 
expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) 
Elig ble Budget 
25,000,000 
100%
Actirities under :he
Pro 'ct
TOTAL AMOUNT 
25,000,000
-13-
B. 
Withdlawal Cond itio ns; W 
Vithdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the LoE n Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee.
C. 
Arrangements for DI Compliance
1. 
Prior to any Loaii withdrawal under Category (1), the Borrower, through
MINE U, shall si:bn it to the Bank, in a manner acceptable to the Bank: (a) the
pertinept EBA Re por:, in accordance with the provisions of the Operational
Manua ard the addi:ional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.I of this
Schedile; and (b) evide1kce of compliance with the Disbursement-Linked
Indicatiors, as refirred to in the Operational Manual and in the additional
instruciions referre I tc in S-ction IV. A. 1 of this Schedule.
2. 
If the 
ank has not roceiN ed evidence of full compliance with the quantitative
DLIs 
Ls #1, 4, 6 arid 8 listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, in respect to
any Lpan withdrawal uncer Category (1) (as referred to in the Operational
Manual and addidior.al iistructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this
Schedole), then:
(a) 
the Bank shall 
lisburse the Loan amount of the corresponding
withdrawal. altributable to each DLI, in proportion to the respective
degree of exicution of each DLI and in accordance with additional
instruction s referred to in Section IV.A. I of this Schedule;
(b) 
the Borrower, thro igh MINEDU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
sa:isfactorY time-t ound action plan to achieve such DLI or DLIs in a
manner sa isfictor r to the Bank; and
(c) 
as soon is the 3ank is satisfied that said action plan has been
irplemeni ed, the Bank shall authorize the withdrawal of unwithdrawn
Loan anc ant by which the corresponding Loan withdrawal had been
reduced in the wit]:drawal period following the date of implementation of
said actioa plan, all as further detailed in the additional instructions
referred tc in 3ectin IV.A.1 of this Schedule.
3. 
If the Bank has rot received evidence of full compliance with the qualitative
DLIs (DL1 #2, 3, 5, and 7) listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, with respect to
any ILoan disburs :mcnt uader Category (1) (as referred to in the Operational
Manu4l end addtional nstructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this
Schedule), then:
-14-
(a) 
the Bank shall wAithhold the corresponding withdrawal attributable to
each DLI;
(b) 
the Borrower, thrmugh MINEDU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
satisfactoy time-ound action plan, to achieve such DLI in a manner
setisfactoi y to the Bank; and
(c) 
when the Baik is satisfied that said action plan has been implemented,
the Bank ;ha 1 authorize the withdrawal of unwithdrawn Loan amount by
which the c rres!ponding Loan withdrawal had been reduced in the
withdrawil reriod following the date of implementation of said action
plan, all is fiirthr detailed in the additional instructions referred to in
S,ction I.A.1 of this Schedule.
4. 
In thd event that th e Bank has not approved a full withdrawal by the Borrower of
the L an proceed urder Category (1) (as referred to in the additional instructions
referrpd ta in Section IVA.1 of this Schedule), the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the con esponding amount of the Loan at the time of after the
last I4oan withdr wa (as referred to in the additional instructions referred to in
Section i.A.1 of thi3 ScYedule).
5. 
The losing Date is lvlarch 31,2018.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Anortization Schedule
The following tabli sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the tOtal prir cipal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Intalmer Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of ti e first I 'rincipal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable b.y thLe B rrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the 3ar k by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first P ' cipal Payinet Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payme t Date, sucl re iaya >le amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any.
amounts referred .o in p;ragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies,
Prine pal Paymei-t I ate 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and Seplember 15
Begin ing September 15, 2)17
throug September 15. 201 
20%
2. 
If the proceeds of tie Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the princip; Ll amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Pincipal Payi ner t Da e shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extnt that amy proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first PriiicipE1 Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn. Loan Talance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Sch adu le.
(b) 
Any amot nt with'rawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Pi incipal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal inL ar ounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each su..h withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the origin 1 In stall nent Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule f or aid Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the d.-ncmintor of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment S] hares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amount: repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts rferred t) in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversioa a pplie
-16-
3. 
(a) 
A mounts of 1 he L Dan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Pal neu t Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amount! payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdraw a .nd )utstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following ti e d te of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Pay en t Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date foll owilg th i date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithsianding he provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices ire issuc d on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of s ,ch 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
VithdraA als mad. after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the proi isions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of 1l or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Apprved Currenicy, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be delermirned by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
curre cy of denc miration immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchnge: rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payaple by the Bark uider the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conyersion; or (ii) iF the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guid!linies, the e ich nge rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of thi; Scl edule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in ech Loan Curre acy, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amour t.
-17-
SCHEDULE 4
Eligible Budget Activities
(Expressed in Nuevos Soles)
nUUUL3L. iNationai sumple evaluutioub 
Lj-)UyG,VVV 
A;7".%P 
jAi,AA'1,-9 
%P_ 
I 
I_ 
___,_ 
_ 
1
5000253. Participation in international 2,482,309 
1,232,818 
2,595,874 
161,546 
6,472,547
assessments 
I_I_I_I_1_ 
1
15003145. 
Assessment 
of prevrimarv L- 
A 
on 
L 
an 
1n 
Ann 
J .on 
ann 
'IA An
students and quality of services 
a, UJ,U 
oU,U,,
Subtotal 
09I7,21U 
l 
iii 
(5,O,U 
193,0,14i,i01 a34,4
5003114. School Principal Evaluation 6,000,000 
20,960,000 
20,710,000 
19,480,000 
67,150,000
System 
_
5003146. 
Monitoring 
learning 1,560,800 
1,716,880 
1,888,568 
2,077,425 
7,243,673
opportunities in the classroom
Subtotal 
7,560,800 
22,676,880 
22,598,568 
21,557,425, 74,393,673
5000276. Program management 
1,977,865 
2,328,870 
2,068,870 
2,328,870 
8704,475
Subtotal 
1,977,865 
2,328,870 
2,068,870 
2,328,870 
8704,475
-18-I
SCHEDULE 5
Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLIs)
-t---Nmbrofadiinl 
rde t h Piay dcain n Scn 
aEducation levels 
r 
2 
I_
which sound national assessments are administered in at least two subjects"areas
Reported tor Keportea tor Reporned for Kepored or
2 
Annual Results of national student assessments at the Primary Education and Secondary 
the grades 
the grades 
the grades 
the grades
Education levels reported at the national, regional and school level 
assessed the 
assessed the assessed th 
assessed the
I 
~ 
~~~previous 
year 
reiousya prviu yerevious year
3 
Annual Results of national studies of classroom instructional practice at the Primary 
Renorted 
Renorted Reported Reported'
jEducation and Secondary Education levels reported at thie nationat level
4 
Number of school management positions staffed through the school principal evaluation 
q nn 
1 A nn t1 Afn
5 
Yearly student assessment for selected grades of Primary Education and Secondary
Education levels validated in a pilot study
6 
Number of surveys carried out to evaluate child development progress and the quality of 
0
public Preschool Education services
7 
Borrower's (through MINEDU) participation in international assessments of student 
rtcao 
n 
PiSa
learning outcomes 
in TERCE 
in_PISA
8 
Number of national studies carried out to monitor instructional practice in Primary 
I
Education or Secondary Education levels, as the case may be
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. DeQnit ons
1. 
"Anti-Corraption 
Gu delb ies" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Comb#ting Fraud End Corr ption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits anc. Grants", dated )ctober 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Basic Education" mean: Pre-primary Education, Primary Education and
Secondary Education.
3. 
"Cate 
ry" means a ca ttegc ryset forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this A 
ement.
4. 
"Cons Itar t Guide line s" n eans the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consults under IB'D ,oans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borro*ers" dated J ant ary.:011.
5. 
"DEI" means Dirccci6n ce Educaci6n Inicial, the Borrower's Directorate for
Preschool 7ducaticin withii MINEDU.
6. 
"DID " means D ireccidn de Investigaci6n y DocumentaciOn Educativa, the
Borro*er'; Directorato for Research and Documentation within MINEDU.
7. 
"DIG DD" meant D recc f6n General de Desarrollo Docente, the Borrower's
Generl Direction or Teac ier Development within MINEDU.
8. 
"DIG DIE" mear.s Dire-,cin General de Desarrollo de las Instituciones
Educa ivas, the Be rrower'. General Directorate for School Development.
9. 
"Disbrsement-Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means any of the indicators set forth
in Schedule 5 of th is ILgrec ment.
10. 
"EBA 
pReort" means any of the reports referred to in Section I.B.5 of Schedule 2
to this,Agieement.
11. 
"Eligib>e Budget Activitie ;" or "EBA" means the activities within the Program
under the budget .od -s set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement in respect of
whichl a set of se ectbd e igible expenditures (including goods, non-consulting
servic Is and consialtants' services), which are not permanent in nature,will be
incurr Al y the Borrower under the Project (and thus said set of expenditures
constitute a subt et of ihe Eligible Expenditures defined in the General
Condi-ions).
-20-
12. 
"Gen4ral Conditi)ns' m<ans the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development Ger era [ Coi ditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
13. 
"Independent Ver ific ition Agency" means the entity referred to in Section I.B.3
(a) of Schedule 2 :o this A greement.
14. 
"IndiPncus Peoples' Pl inning Framework or IPPF" means the Borrower's
framwork dated December 4, 2012 acceptable to the Bank, published and
available to the public o MINEDU's website on December 4, 2012, detailing
meas(Ores to mitigate any idverse impact on indigenous peoples as a result of any
activiy carried oaut unde: the Project and to ensure that they benefit from the
Proje-.t, including, p ocedures for the preparation and implementation of the
perti ent indigenous peoples development plans, referred to in Section I.D.(a)(i)
of Sc iedIle 2 to t his Agri ement.
15. 
"" 
DU" mens Mir isterio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of
Education.
16. 
"Nue os Soles" nearLs th< Borrower's official currency.
17. 
"OECD" means Oigani mtion for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD), an intei-goernimental organization of industrialized countries created
pursuant a Convf:,nti)n signed December of 1960, which purpose is to promote
policies ':o improve the -conomic and social well-being of people around the
world.
18. 
"Op rational Minunl" rieans the Borrower's manual referred to in Section
I.D.( i) of Schediile 2 to ihis Agreement, as such manual may be amended from
time to time w th the Bank's prior approval, and such term includes any
scheoules to the )pe ratioaal Manual.
19. 
"PELA" means, te B,rrower's Education Program for Student Learning
(Prograrza Edut.ati vo I ogros de Aprendizaje) approved by the Borrower's
Ministry of Fintnct through the Official Letter No. 131-2012-MEF/DGPP on
June 6, 2012.
20. 
"PerPormance In licE tors" means the Project monitoring and evaluation indicators
set fbrth in the 0 per ition A1 Manual.
21. 
"PISA" means Prc gran 
for International Student Assesment, a system of
internati:nal ass.srr ents that focuses, inter alia, on 15-year-old's capabilities in
reading literacy, mg then Latics literacy, and science literacy, coordinated by the
OE:D.
-21-.
22. 
"POA'J means Pla1 Opera ivo Anual, the Borrower's annual plan referred to in
Section I.B.1 of Sc ied ale 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Pre-pximary Educaticn" n eans the education provided to children from 3 years
up to 6 years of agc pr.or u: ider the Borrower's public school system.
24. 
"Primary Educatic n" me& is grades 1 to 6 of the Borrower's public primary
school$ system.
25.. 
"Procurement Guit elines" neans the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Scrvicos under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January
2011.
26. 
"Procuremnt Plan" mean the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated INovember 2 8, 2 012 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph :.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updatel from time to t [me in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
27. 
"Progrm" means the Boi rower's sub-program under the umbrella of PELA,
supporting the Elig ible Buiget Activities.
28. 
"Secoidary Educa ion" me ans grades I to 5 of the Borrower's public secondary
school system.
29. 
"SPE"I means Secreta la c e Planificaci6n Educativa, the Borrower's Education
Plannitg Secretariat.
30. 
"TER9E" means 
Terce - Estudio Regional Comparativo y Explicativo de
Evaluqci6n, the third i egio tal comparative study for the evaluation of third grade
and sith grade of Primarq Education in literacy, math and science, coordinated
by UNESCO's reg ionl of ice of Education.
31. 
"UEP' or means Unid add Ejecuci6n delProyecto, the unit created pursuant the
Miniswria. Reso1h tion No. 0257-2012 of July 11, 2012 referred to in Section
I.A.1(,) of Schedule 2 to tl is Agreement, and any succesor thereof.
32. 
"UIMq" means 
r_Aid7d re Medicidn de la Calidad, the Borrower's Quality
Measurement Un.tre-"erre,l to in Section I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
33. 
"UNE3CO" meas "Un ted Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization", a !peciali2ed agency of the United Nations (UN), which purpose
is to 4ontribute tc peace ad security by promoting international collaboration
through education sciencE, and culture in order to further universal respect for
-22-
justice, the rule >f law, and human rights along with fundamental freedoms
proc4imed in the UN cha ter.
-23-
