OFFIC AL
WXUMENTS'
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF014573
Strategic Climate Fund- Pilot Program
for Climate Resilience Loan Agreement
(Strengthening Climate Resilience PPCR (Phase II) Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
d 
acting as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund- Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience
Dated 
0E 
, 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF014573
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND- PILOT PROGRAM FOR CLIMATE
RESILIENCE LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
.
* 
14- 
, 2013, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
ZAMBIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
("World Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an
implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund ("SCF") - Pilot Program for Climate
Resilience ( "PPCR").
WHEREAS, pursuant to an agreement of even date herewith (the "SCF-PPCR Grant
Agreement"), the World Bank acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its
capacity as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund ("SCF") -
Pilot
Program for Climate Resilience ("PPCR") has provided a grant in an amount equivalent
to $31,000,000 for the financing of the Project.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
d 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million United States
Dollars ($5,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF- PPCR. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the
db 
Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World
Bank's payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the
amount of funds made available to it from the SCF-PPCR trust fund, and the
I
If
-2-
Borrower's right to withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such
funds.
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
I 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Finance in
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
The SCF-PPCR Grant Agreement has been signed and delivered, and all
conditions of effectiveness of said agreement or the right of the Borrower
to withdraw funds thereunder have been satisfied, except for the
condition that this Agreement has become effective.
(b) 
The Borrower has prepared and adopted a Project Operational Manual
and a Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual in accordance
with the provisions of Section .B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-3-
Article V
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Republic of Zambia
Telex: 
Facsimile:
(+260) 42221 
(+260 211) 253494/251078
5.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Lusaka, Republic of Zambia, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:_____ 
__
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as an implementing
entity of the Strategic Climate Fund - Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
By
A u 
'ed 
esentab**e
Na 
e:
WoTitle:______________ 
__
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's institutional
framework for climate resilience and improve the adaptive capacity of vulnerable
communities in the Barotse sub-basin.
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the
following parts:
Part I Strategic National Program Support
Carrying out a program of activities to strengthen the national institutional framework for
climate resilience, such program of activities to comprise the following:
(a) Institutional 
support 
to 
the 
national 
climate 
change 
program 
through:(i)
mainstreaming of climate resilience into key national and sectoral policies and
programs; (ii) provision of short term and post graduate training opportunities for
climate change champions, knowledge sharing, analysis and dissemination; (iii)
carrying out of studies on management of external resources and climate risk
financing; and (iv) operational support to the National Climate Change Secretariat
including in fiduciary management and programmatic monitoring and evaluation, all
through the provision of technical assistance, the acquisition of goods, vehicles and
equipment, the financing of consultant services, the financing of Operating Costs and
the carrying out of Training.
(b) Support for enhanced climate and early warning information dissemination through:
(i) carrying out of social marketing awareness campaigns; (ii) application of rapid
communication systems between line agencies and communities in the pilot sub-
basins; and (iii) establishment of a pilot open data platform, all through the provision
of technical assistance and Training; acquisition of goods and equipment and
financing of consultant services, non-consultant services and Operating Costs.
Part 2 
Support for Participatory Adaptation
Carrying out a program of activities to strengthen the adaptive capacity of vulnerable
rural communities in the Barotse sub-basin, such program of activities to comprise the
following:
(a) Engaging the services of experienced non-governmental organizations and other
qualified facilitators to strengthen the capacity of communities to identify and
articulate climate risks, use participatory approaches to prioritize adaptation options,
prepare and implement sub-grant proposals and manage canals.
-6-
(b) Support to the Western Province and District Councils for: (i) carrying out of climate
risk and assessment studies for the Barotse sub-basin; (ii) mainstreaming of climate
resilience into regional plans and budgets; (iii) designing and overseeing the
implementation of structural and non-structural adaptation options; (iv) enhancing
access of Beneficiaries to adaptation knowledge and centers of expertise; and (v)
improving the policy and recurrent financing framework for traditional canals, all
through the provision of technical assistance; acquisition of goods and equipment and
financing of consultant services, non-consultant services and Training.
(c) Financing incremental operating expenditures and strengthening the capacity of the
Western Province and District Councils including in financial management,
safeguards screening and monitoring and evaluation, all through the provision of
technical assistance; acquisition of vehicles, goods and equipment; and financing of
consultant services and Operating Costs.
Part 3 Pilot Participatory Adaptation
Carrying out a program of activities to pilot climate adaptation in the Barotse sub-basin,
such program of activities to comprise the following:
(a) Providing Sub-Project Grants to finance eligible Sub-Projects at the District, Ward
community groups and individual levels, and to finance innovations or scale up the
work of best performing Beneficiaries.
(b) Establishing and operating an Adaptation Contingency Fund to finance eligible Sub-
Projects based on the occurrence of a defined event (s) as detailed in the Participatory
Adaptation Implementation Manual.
(c) Rehabilitating and strengthening the management of traditional canals.
dd
di
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
Ministry ofFinance
1. 
The Ministry of Finance shall be responsible for the overall execution, coordination
and implementation of the Project and shall in this regard implement the Project
through the National Climate Change Secretariat.
National Climate Change Secretariat
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the National
Climate Change Secretariat, with an institutional framework and terms of reference
satisfactory to the World Bank and facilities and resources adequate to carry out its
responsibilities under the Project.
3. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the National Climate Change Secretariat shall
be responsible for the overall coordination, implementation and reporting of the
Project.
National Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the National
Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit, with an institutional framework and
terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank and facilities and resources
adequate to carry out its responsibilities under the Project.
5. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the National Disaster Management and
Mitigation Unit (DMMU) shall be responsible for the implementation of Part 1.B
(ii) and (iii) of the Project.
Provincial Project Implementation Unit
6. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than January 30, 2014 establish and thereafter
maintain throughout Project implementation, a Provincial Project Implementation
Unit (PPIU), within the Western Province administration headed by the chief
planner and comprising a liaison officer, an environmental and social safeguards
management specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, adaptation specialist
and an accounting assistant, all with qualifications, experience, and terms of
reference satisfactory to the World Bank; and (b) ensure that the PPIU has adequate
resources to carry out its responsibilities under the Project.
-8-
7. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the PPIU shall be responsible for overseeing
and facilitating the day-to-day implementation of the Project in the Barotse sub-
basin.
Provincial Planning Sub-Committee
8. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout Project implementation, the Provincial
Planning Sub-Committee within Western Province with an institutional framework
and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank and facilities and resources
adequate to carry out its responsibilities under the Project.
9. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the functions of the Provincial Planning Sub-
Committee shall be to: (a) facilitate overall coordination of the Project in the
Province; and (b) endorse Sub-Projects for subsequent approval by the National
Climate Change Secretariat.
District Planner and District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee
10. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout Project implementation, the office of the
District Planner and the District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee within each
District, each with an institutional framework and terms of reference satisfactory to
the World Bank and facilities and resources 
adequate to carry out its
responsibilities under the Project.
11. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the District Planner under the guidance of the
District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee 
shall 
be 
responsible 
for: 
(a)
mainstreaming climate resilience in District integrated development plans; (b)
facilitating, coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Project at the
District, Ward and community levels; and (c) screening Sub-Projects against the
eligibility criteria and recommending them for consideration by the Provincial
Planning Sub-Committee.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
Project Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) (i) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
World Bank, and furnish to the World Bank a Project Operational Manual
containing detailed guidelines and procedures for the implementation of the
Project, including in the areas of monitoring and evaluation, procurement,
coordination, social and environmental safeguards, financial, administrative and
accounting procedures, corruption and fraud mitigation measures, guidelines on
Operating Costs, and such other arrangements and procedures as shall be required
for the Project; and (ii) thereafter adopt and carry out the Project in accordance
with such Project Implementation Manual as shall have been approved by the
-9-
World Bank (Project Operational Manual); and (b) except as the World Bank shall
otherwise agree in writing, not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived
any provision of the Project Operational Manual.
Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) (i) prepare and furnish to the World Bank a participatory
adaptation implementation 
manual setting out the guidelines for community
participation in the Project and the selection criteria and detailed guidelines and
procedures for the implementation of Sub-Projects, including administrative,
financial and accounting, procurement, social and environmental safeguards,
monitoring and evaluation procedures; and (ii) thereafter adopt and cause the
Sub-Projects to be implemented in accordance with such participatory adaptation
manual as shall have been approved by the World Bank (Participatory
Adaptation Implementation Manual); and (b) except as the World Bank shall
otherwise agree in writing, not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or
waived any provision of the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual.
3. 
In case of a conflict between the provisions of the Project Operational Manual or
the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual and this Agreement, those
of this Agreement shall prevail.
Annual Work Plans and Budget
4. 
The Borrower shall, not later than December 30 of each year prepare and furnish
to the World Bank, an annual program of activities proposed for implementation
do 
under the Project during the following Fiscal Year, together with a proposed
budget for the purpose.
5. 
The Borrower shall exchange views with the World Bank on each such proposed
annual work plan, and shall thereafter adopt, and carry out such program of
activities for such following Fiscal Year as shall have been agreed with the
World Bank, as such plan may be subsequently revised during such following
Fiscal Year with the prior written agreement of the World Bank (Agreed Annual
Work Plan).
C. 
Sub-Projects
1. 
For purposes of implementation of Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
provide Sub-Project Grants to Beneficiaries to implement Sub-Projects in
accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the World Bank
and specified in the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual which shall
include the following:
(a) 
Sub-Project Grants shall be provided for priority adaptation investments
identified through climate resilience planning.
1-10-
(b) 
Beneficiaries shall: (i) contribute part of the cost of Sub-Projects in cash
or in kind as stipulated in the Participatory Adaptation Implementation
Manual; (ii) meet minimum registration and fiduciary requirements as set
out in the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual; and (iii)
open and maintain a bank account, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the World Bank, where appropriate, for receiving Beneficiary
contributions and funds from the proceeds of the Sub-Project Grants.
(c) 
Sub-Project Grants shall be made under a Sub-Project Grant Agreement
with the respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions acceptable to the
World Bank, which shall cover rights adequate to protect its interests and
those of the World Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate
the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-Project Grant,
or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-Project
Grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of
its obligations under the Sub-Project Grant Agreement; and (ii) require
each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory
to the World Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the
resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and
services to be financed out of the Sub-Project Grant in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement;(D) maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the World Bank, the progress of the Sub-Project
and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain adequate records
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the outputs,
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Sub-Project; and
(2) at the World Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such records
and outputs audited by independent auditors acceptable to the World
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the World Bank, and promptly furnish the report of such
audit to the Borrower and the World Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and
the World Bank to inspect the Sub-Project, its operation and any relevant
records and documents; (G) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the
World Bank all such information as the Borrower or the World Bank
may reasonably request; and (H) take such measures as shall be
necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of the
Environmental 
and Social 
Management Framework 
(ESMF), the
Resettlement Policy Framework ( RPF), the Pest Management Plan
(PMP), 
and 
any 
Resettlement 
Action 
Plans 
(RAPs) 
and/or
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs), as the case may be.
S2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Sub-Project Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
I
I
Borrower and the World Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-Project Grant Agreement or any of its
provisions.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguard
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the ESMF, the RPF, the PMP and any RAPs and/or EMPs.
2. 
Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall ensure that all technical
assistance under the Project, application of whose results would have
environmental or social implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms
of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the World Bank, such terms of
reference to ensure that the technical assistance takes into account the
requirements of the ESMF, the RPF, the PMP, any applicable RAP and or
EMPs, and the Borrower's own laws relating to the environment and social
aspects.
3. 
Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the World Bank, the Borrower shall
require that in implementing Sub-Projects, the Beneficiaries take such measures
as shall be necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of the
ESMF, the RPF, the PMP, and any RAPs and/or EMPs, as the case may be.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Project reports referred to in Section II.A of this
Schedule shall include adequate information on the implementation 
and
monitoring of the measures undertaken to implement the provisions of the
ESMF, the RPF, the PMP, and any RAPs and/or EMPs.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank and set out in the Project
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter
and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of the period covered by such report.
-12-
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty five
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
do 
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period and
a Management Letter shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6)
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
I 
A. 
General
I1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II
and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
I
-13-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional provisions set out
in paragraph 3 below)
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
(d) Force Account
(e) Procurement from UNOPS
(f) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to
the World Bank and set out in the Participatory Adaptation Implementation
Manual
3. 
Additional Provisions and Modifications to National Competitive Bidding
The procurement procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding
("NCB") shall be the open international bidding procedure set forth in the Public
Procurement Act, 2008, Act. No.12 of 2008, as amended by the Public
Procurement (Amendment) Act, 2011, Act No. 15 of 2011 (the "PPA"), and the
Public Procurement Regulations, 2011, Statutory Instrument No. 63 of 2011 (the
"Regulations"); provided, however, that such procedure shall be subject to the
provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and Appendix I
of the "Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting
Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" (January 2011) 
(the "Procurement Guidelines"), and the additional
provisions in the following paragraphs:
(a) 
Eligibility: Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be
awarded an World Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or
potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the
World Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed
to participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions, such
-14-
as, but not limited to, mandatory partnering or subcontracting with
national entities.
(b) 
Domestic Preference: No margins of preference of any sort shall be
applied in the bid evaluation.
(c) 
Bidding Documents: Procuring entities shall use bidding documents
acceptable to the World Bank.
3(d) 
Bid validity: An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional
circumstances, may be requested in accordance with Appendix I of the
Procurement Guidelines. 
A corresponding extension of any bid
guarantee shall be required in all cases of extension of bid validity. A
bidder may refuse a request for extension of bid validity without
forfeiting its bid guarantee.
d 
(e) 
Qualification: Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the
bidding documents. 
All criteria so specified, and only such specified
criteria, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified.
Qualification shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis, and merit points
shall not be used. 
Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the
bidder's or prospective bidder's capability and resources to effectively
perform the contract, taking into account objective and measurable
factors, including: (i) relevant general and specific experience, and
satisfactory past performance and successful completion of similar
contracts over a given period; (ii) financial position; and (iii) where
relevant capability of construction and/or manufacturing facilities.
(f) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the World Bank
shall be used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification
of the information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including
current commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award,
along with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and
equipment. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the
bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by
post-qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.
(g) 
Bid Evaluation: 
All bid evaluation criteria other than price shall be
quantifiable in monetary terms. Merit points shall not be used, and no
minimum point or percentage value shall be assigned to the evaluation
criteria or significance of price in bid evaluation. No negotiations shall
be permitted.
-15-
(h) 
Guarantees: Guarantees shall be in the format, shall have the period of
validity and shall be submitted when and as specified in the bidding
documents.
(i) 
Cost Estimates: Detailed cost estimates shall be confidential and shall not
be disclosed to prospective bidders. No bids shall be rejected on the
basis of comparison with the cost estimates without the World Bank's
prior written concurrence.
Ij) 
Rejection of bids and re-bidding: No bid shall be rejected solely because
it falls outside of a predetermined price range or exceeds the estimated
cost. All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is received) shall not be
rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids
shall 
not be solicited without the World Bank's prior written
concurrence.
(k) 
Fraud and corruption: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract shall include provisions stating the
World Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals found to have
engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the Procurement
Guidelines.
(1) 
Inspection and audit rights: In accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines, each bidding document and contract shall include provisions
stating the Bank's policy with respect to inspection and audit of
accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of bids
and contract performance.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
-16-
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
.17-
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures
Loan Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Goods, works, non- 
5,000,000 
100%
consulting services and
consultants' services
under Part 3.C of the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
S. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) Until and unless the Borrower has adopted operational arrangements
acceptable to the World Bank for the sustainable operation and
maintenance of traditional canals and has provided resources for the
maintenance of canals acceptable to the World Bank in the approved
annual budget for the Fiscal Year in which the withdrawal is made.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
I
o-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15:
commencing October 15, 2023 to and including 
1%
April 15, 2033
commencing October 15, 2033 to and including 
2%
April 15, 2053
7a
I
do
do
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
I. 
"Adaptation Contingency Fund" means the fund established under Part 3.B of the
Project to provide Sub-Project Grants contingent upon the early warning of a
disaster for the implementation of Sub-Projects aimed at increasing the
Beneficiaries' preparedness in the event that the disaster takes place.
2. 
"Agreed Annual Work Plan" means the program of activities agreed each Fiscal
Year between the Borrower and the World Bank for implementation under the
Project in accordance with Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement during
the following Fiscal Year, as the same may be revised from time to time in
accordance with said Section.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Barotse Royal Establishment" 
mean the traditional chiefs of the Lozi
community recognized and operating under the Chief's Act, Chapter 287 of the
Laws of the Borrower.
5. 
"Beneficiaries" means the District Councils, Wards, community groups or
individuals who meet the eligibility criteria specified in the Project Operational
Manual and the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual for receiving
Sub-Project Grants and to which or for whose benefit a Sub-Project Grant is
made or proposed to be made, and in its singular form the term means any one
such grouping.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (ii) the involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons;
and "Displaced Persons" means more than one Displaced Person.
I
I.9.
0-20-
711.
9. 
"District" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower within a Province
established pursuant to Provincial and Districts Boundaries Act, Chapter 286 of
the Laws of the Borrower.
10. 
"District Council" means a local government unit within the Borrower's territory
established and operating pursuant to Local Government Act, Chapter 281 of the
Laws of the Borrower.
11. 
"District Planner" means a staff of the Borrower responsible for planning at the
District level and referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"District Planning Advisory sub-Committee" means the planning committee of
the Borrower established for each District comprising representatives from
various line ministries and government agencies at the district level, the Barotse
Royal Establishment and civil society, and referred to in Section I.A of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"Environmental 
Management Plan" or "EMP" 
means 
an Environmental
Management Plan acceptable to the World Bank and prepared in accordance with
the ESMF and "EMPs" means, collectively, all such plans.
14. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Environmental and Social Management Framework prepared and adopted by the
Borrower, dated February 2013, defining the set of mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation of the
Project to eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them,
reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts of the Project
activities, as such framework may be amended by the Borrower from time to
time, with the prior written agreement of the World Bank.
15. 
"Fiscal Year" means each fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on January I
di 
and ending on December 31.
16. 
"Management Letter" means, in respect of each of the audited Financial
Statements of the Borrower, a letter issued by the external auditors as part of the
annual audit report setting forth internal control weaknesses identified during the
audit period.
17. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for matters
relating to finance.
18. 
"National Climate Change Secretariat" means the Interim National Climate
Change Secretariat unit of the Borrower established in the Ministry of Finance to
oversee all climate resilience interventions in the country and comprising of
technical and operational Staff of the Borrower, and referred to in Section I.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement or its successor thereto.
I
I19.
-21 -
19. 
"National Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit" or "DMMU" means a unit
of the Borrower referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
responsible for disaster management and mitigation and established and
operating under the Disaster Management Act, Act No. 13 of 2010, or its legal
successor thereto.
20. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the Borrower for
Project implementation, supervision, management, and monitoring, on account
of office space rental and utilities, office supplies and consumables, bank
charges, 
communications, 
vehicle operation, 
maintenance and insurance,
building and equipment maintenance and insurance, Project related travel costs
and subsistence, advertising and contracted staff salaries (other than consultants'
services), but excluding salaries of civil servants.
21. 
"Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual" means the Participatory
Adaptation Implementation Manual in form and substance acceptable to the
World Bank prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended in
accordance with the provisions of said Section.
22. 
"Pest Management Plan" or "PMP" means the Borrower's plan acceptable to the
World Bank, dated February2013, setting out the measures to be taken for the
development and implementation of integrated pest management and safe
handling of pesticides in the course of Project implementation, as the same may
be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the World
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan.
23. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
24. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
S,adated 
April 2, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
25. 
"Program" means the Strategic Program for Climate Resilience designed to
mainstream climate change into the most economically vulnerable sectors of the
Borrower's economy and set forth or referred to in the letter dated June 14, 2011
from the Borrower to the World Bank.
26. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the Project Operational Manual in form and
substance acceptable to the World Bank prepared by the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same
may be amended in accordance with the provisions of said Section.
I
I 
27.
-22-
27. 
"Province" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower established
pursuant to Provincial and Districts Boundaries Act, Chapter 286 of the Laws of
the Borrower.
28. 
"Provincial Planning Sub-Committee" means the planning committee of the
Borrower established at the Western Province administration comprising
representatives from various line ministries and government agencies at the
provincial level, the Barotse Royal Establishment and civil society, and referred
to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. 
"Provincial Project Implementation Unit" or "PPIU" means a unit of the
Borrower established 
in 
Mongu 
Western 
Province to 
oversee 
Project
implementation in the Barotse sub-basin and referred to in Section I.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30. 
"RAP" means the resettlement action plan, in form and substance satisfactory to
the World Bank, prepared or to be prepared by the Borrower on the basis of the
RPF, and giving details of the specific actions, measures and policies designed to
facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the RPF, along with the procedural
and institutional measures needed to implement such actions, measures and
policies, as such RAP may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the World Bank.
31. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework acceptable to the World Bank,
dated February 2013, adopted by the Borrower, and giving details of provisions for
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, as
such RPF may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the World Bank.
32. 
"SCF-PPCR Grant Agreement" means the Strategic Climate Fund-Pilot Program
for Climate Resilience Grant Agreement, entered into between the International
Development Association, acting as an implementing entity of the Strategic
Climate Fund - Pilot Program for Climate Resilience and the Borrower on the
same date as this Agreement for the financing of the Project ( SCF-PPCR Grant
No. TF014588-ZM).
33. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 15, 2012 with
the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
34. 
"Sub-Project" means a priority investment proposed to be implemented by an
eligible District, Ward, community group or individual and which meets the
eligibility criteria set out in the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual
and the provisions of Section 1. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and are
I
-23-
eligible to receive financing under Part 3 of the Project, and Sub-Projects means
two or more of such investments.
35. 
"Sub-Project Grant" means a grant financing made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower for the purpose of financing eligible Sub-Projects under the Project
and referred to in Section 1. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
36. 
"Sub-Project Grant Agreement" means an agreement satisfactory to the World
Bank, between the Borrower and the Beneficiary through which the Borrower
provides Sub-Project Grants to eligible Beneficiaries, and referred to in Section
L.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
37. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of training under the Project, based on
annual budgets approved by the World Bank, and attributable to seminars,
workshops, study programs and tours, along with tuition, travel and subsistence
allowances 
for training participants, 
services of trainers and workshop
facilitators, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
materials, and other activities directly related to course or workshop preparation
and implementation.
38. 
"United Nations Office for Procurement Services" or "UNOPS" means an
agency of the United Nations established in 1974 to expand the capacity of the
United Nations system and 
its partners to implement peace building,
humanitarian and development operations that matter for people in need.
39. 
"Ward" means an electoral and administrative subdivision of the District Council
established pursuant to the Local Government Elections Act, Chapter 282 of the
Laws of the Borrower.
Section II. 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions
The modification to the Standard Conditions is as follows:
Section 4.01 (Management Fee) of the Standard Conditions is deleted in its entirety.
