DOCU MENTS,
LOAN NUMBER 8235-CN
Loan Agreement
(Beijing Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Scale-up (Sunshine Schools) Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
10 
, 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8235-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
2013, 
between 
PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and twenty million
Dollars ($120,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread:
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or un-withdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa: or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end. the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entities in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
China
Facsimile:
86-10-6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: _ 
__ 
64 
Z
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to increase the share of clean energy in
electricity consumption and to demonstrate the viability of the renewable energy service
company model for scaling up the deployment of rooftop solar photovoltaic systems in
schools and other educational institutions in Beijing Municipality.
The Project consists of the following parts:
1. 
Support to Sunshine Schools Program
Installation of distributed rooftop solar photovoltaic electricity generation
systems in selected schools and other educational institutions in Beijing
Municipality.
2. 
Technical Assistance
Development of local capacity for scaling up of commercially viable solar energy
deployment:
(a) 
Demonstration of the renewable energy service company business model
for large-scale grid-connected rooftop solar photovoltaic deployment in
Beijing Municipality, provision of engineering and technical support in
relation to photovoltaic systems to Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving
Technology Company Limited, and 
independent monitoring and
evaluation of implementation and results of such model;
(b) 
demonstration of two-way metering in Beijing Municipality;
(c) 
establishment of an online monitoring system for rooftop photovoltaic
systems and a solar-energy information portal in Beijing Municipality;
and
(d) 
improvement of renewable-energy education in schools and other
educational institutions in Beijing Municipality.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section .
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
On-lending
I. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Beijing Municipality, and shall cause Beijing
Municipality to make such proceeds available to Beijing Yuanshen Energy
Saving Technology Company Limited, both under terms and conditions approved
by the Bank, which shall include the following, namely, the principal amount of
the Loan made available shall be:
(a) 
denominated and repayable in Dollars;
(b) 
charged a front-end fee at the rate set forth in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement;
(c) 
charged interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at the rate set forth in Section 2.04 of this Agreement;
and
(d) 
repayable over the period set forth in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the on-lending arrangements referred
to in the preceding paragraph in such a manner as to protect its interests and
those of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except,as the
Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived, such
rights.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Management Manual and Implementation and Operations Manual
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Management Manual
and the Implementation and Operations Manual; and
-7-
(b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of either of the Management
Manual or the Implementation and Operations Manual and those of this
Agreement, the latter shall govern.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental
Management Plan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that no
land acquisition or Involuntary Resettlement is carried out under the Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to monitor and evaluate the
progress of their Respective Parts of the Project and prepare Project Reports for such
Parts in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of the indicators set forth in the Implementation and Operations Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished
to the Borrower and the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the Financial Management Manual; and
(b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
3. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Financial Management
Manual and those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
4. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section II, the Borrower
shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and furnish to the Bank,
as part of the Project Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for their Respective Parts
of the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11 and III of the
Procurement Guidelines.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. .
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used
for procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to
the additional provisions set forth below; (b) Shopping; 
and (c) 
Direct
Contracting.
-9-
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods and non-consulting services
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those set
forth in the Borrower's Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21
dated August 30, 1999, with the modifications set forth below in order to ensure
economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines.
In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and the modifications set
forth below, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of
national circulation in the Borrower's country, except for goods contracts that
are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be
advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made
in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding
documents and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement
and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification
documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of
pre-qualified bidders.
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient to
protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entities, as the case may be,
in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall
specify the required form and amount of such security.
(v) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. 
The time for
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such bids.
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity to
be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid
opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass / fail
requirements.
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid rice falls outside any
- 10 -
standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by
the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entities, as the case may be.
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to
modify the bid as originally submitted.
(x) 
Each contract financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall provide that the
suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their
accounts and records relating to the performance of the contract and to have said
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.
(xi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they can establish that they: (i)
are legally and financially autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and
(iii) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than
three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place without the
Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under subparagraph (i) above) or
official gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify the name
and offered price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary
scope of the awarded contract.
(xiv) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entities, as the case may be, shall
have in place provisions for bidders to protest.
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and non- 
110,260,000 
100%
consulting services for
Part I of the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
300,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(3) Interest During 
9,440,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Construction 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07 (c) of the General
Conditions during the
Construction Period
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07 (c) of this
Premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
120,000,000
- 12 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $24,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 30, 2012
for Eligible Expenditures, subject to fulfillment of the requirements set forth in
Section I.G of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
C. 
Other Withdrawal Undertakings
Withdrawals for goods under Category (1) of the table set forth in Part A.2 of this
Section IV shall be made upon verification by Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving
Technology Company Limited of the generation capacity installed under the
respective activity. Amounts so withdrawn shall be based on the amount of such
capacity and calculated in accordance with the formula set forth for this purpose
in the Financial Management Manual.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
May 15, 2018 
1.48
November 15, 2018 
1.52
May 15, 2019 
1.56
November 15, 2019 
1.59
May 15, 2020 
1.63
November 15, 2020 
1.67
May 15, 2021 
1.72
November 15, 2021 
1.76
May 15, 2022 
1.80
November 15, 2022 
1.85
May 15, 2023 
1.89
November 15, 2023 
1.94
May 15, 2024 
1.99
November 15, 2024 
2.04
May 15, 2025 
2.09
November 15, 2025 
2.14
May 15, 2026 
2.20
November 15, 2026 
2.25
May 15, 2027 
2.31
November 15, 2027 
2.37
May 15, 2028 
2.43
November 15, 2028 
2.49
May 15, 2029 
2.55
November 15, 2029 
2.61
May 15, 2030 
2.68
November 15, 2030 
2.74
- 14 -
May152031 
2.81
November 15, 2031 
2.88
May 15,2032 
2.95
November 15, 2032 
3.03
May 15, 2033 
3.10
November 15, 2033 
3.18
May 15, 2034 
3.26
November 15, 2034 
3.34
May 15, 2035 
3.43
November 15, 2035 
3.51
May 15, 2036 
3.60
November 15, 2036 
.3.69
May 15, 2037 
3.78
November 15, 2037 
4.14
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 15-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants" dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beijing Municipality" means the Borrower's administrative subdivision of such
name in the northeast of its territory, or a successor thereto.
3. 
"Beijing Municipal Development and Reform Commission" means Beijing
Municipality's commission responsible for the management of development and
reform, or a successor thereto.
4. 
"Beijing Energy Investment Holding Company Limited" means the enterprise
wholly-owned by the Borrower and established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Company Law of 1996 and said enterprise's Business Registration
No. 110000007832879 and its charter dated December 8, 2004, or a successor
thereto.
5. 
"Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving Technology Company Limited" means the
wholly-owned subsidiary of Beijing Energy Investment Holding Company
Limited established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Company Law of
1996 and said subsidiary's Business Registration No. 110108005069314 and its
charter dated April 5, 1996, or a successor thereto.
6. 
"Beneficiary" means a school or other educational institution in Beijing
Municipality meeting specific criteria set forth in the Implementation and
Operations Manual (as hereinafter defined) and which is a beneficiary under
Part 1 of the Project and party to an Energy Service Performance Contract (as
hereinafter defined).
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
9. 
"Construction Period" means the period, in relation to works under the Project,
commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the Closing Date.
10. 
"Energy Service Performance Contract" means a contract, referred to in
Part G.2 (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and based on the model set
17-
forth in the Implementation and Operations Manual, between Beijing Yuanshen
Energy Saving Technology Company Limited and a Beneficiary, setting forth the
terms and conditions governing the carrying out of an activity for such
Beneficiary under Part I of the Project, and such term includes any annexes,
appendices, or schedules to such contract.
1i. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Project Implementing Entities (as
hereinafter defined)' plan, dated August 2012, agreed with the Bank and setting
forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, to eliminate any adverse environmental and
social impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project, offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, and guidelines and
procedures for the screening of activities under Part I of the Project, as the same
may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any annexes, appendices, or schedules to such plan.
12. 
"Financial Management Manual" means the Project Implementing Entities'
manual, dated December 2012, agreed with the Bank and setting forth financial
management 
and 
disbursement 
arrangements 
for purposes 
of 
Project
implementation, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes, appendices,
or schedules to such manual.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans" dated March 12, 2012.
14. 
"Implementation and Operations Manual" means Beijing Yuanshen Energy
Saving Technology Company Limited's manual, dated October 2012, agreed
with the Bank and setting forth implementation, organizational, administrative,
and monitoring and evaluation arrangements for purposes of implementation of
Part I of the Project, including criteria, procedures, and terms for activities under
Part I of the Project and a model Energy Service Performance Contract, as the
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any annexes, appendices, or schedules to such
manual.
15. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the following caused on account of Project
implementation: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks
and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected
person.
-18-
16. 
"Interest During Construction" means the interest and other charges accrued
during the Construction Period and payable on the Loan in accordance with the
terms set forth or referred to in this Agreement and in accordance with
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
17. 
"Management 
Manual" 
means 
Beijing 
Municipality's 
manual, 
dated
October 2012, 
agreed with the Bank and setting forth 
implementation,
organizational, administrative, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements for
purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes, appendices, or schedules to such manual.
18. 
"Megawatt" means one million (1,000,000) watts, a standard unit of measure of
electric power.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 18, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means, individually: (a) Beijing Municipality; and
(b) Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving Technology Company Limited; and
"Project Implementing Entities" means both of said entities.
22. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means, for Beijing Yuanshen
Energy Saving Technology Company Limited, the Borrower's Company Law of
1996 and said enterprise's Business Registration No. 110108005069314 and its
charter dated April 5, 1996; and such term includes any other legal instruments
governing the organization, reorganization, restructuring, and operations of the
Project Implementing Entities as of the date of this Agreement.
23. 
"Project Leading Group" means Beijing Municipality's group referred to in
Section I.B.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or a successor thereto.
24. 
"Project Management Office" means Beijing Municipality's office, under the
Project Leading Group, referred to in Section I.B.3 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, or a successor thereto.
25. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means the following: 
(a) for Beijing
Municipality, Part 2 of the Project; and (b) for Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving
Technology Company Limited, Part I of the Project.
- 19-
26. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement pursuant to which Beijing Municipality
shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Beijing Yuanshen Energy
Saving Technology Company Limited, and such term includes any annexes,
appendices, or schedules to such agreement.
27. 
"Sunshine Schools Program" means Beijing Municipality's program designed to
support the installation of (primarily rooftop) solar photovoltaic electricity
generation systems in schools and other educational institutions, and set forth or
referred to in Beijing Municipality's Official Documents No. 1269 (2011) dated
July 25, 2011 and No. 289 (2012) dated March 9, 2012.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modification to the General Conditions is as follows, namely, that
Section 2.05 (a) is modified to read as follows (emphasis added):
"(a) 
the payment is for the reasonable cost of goods and non-consulting
services required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
procured, all in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;"
