OFFIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8229-AM
Loan Agreement
(Lifeline Road Network Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
w 
/ 
, 2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8229-AM
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
1 d 
a, 
2013, between REPUBLIC OF
ARMENIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of forty-five million Dollars ($45,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through MOTC and its TPIU, with the assistance of ARD, shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Operational Manual is adopted by the Borrower, through MOTC.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
I Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
3
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
4
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
&f,riz7Representatie
Name: 
V02-4e 
67agY 
Le
Title: fflw<S/er al inan-ce
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN
4
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
le" - A d4e e'
Title: 
_r____ 
__ 
-
5
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access of rural communities to markets and
services through the upgrading of selected Lifeline Roads, and to strengthen the capacity of the
MOTC to manage the Lifeline Road Network.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Lifeline Road Improvement
(a) 
Carrying out of improvement works for approximately 147 kilometers of selected
roads within the Lifeline Road Network.
(b) 
Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of rehabilitation and routine maintenance works of
approximately 23 kilometers of selected segments of the Lifeline Road Network, under
the terms of a Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract.
(c) 
Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of routine maintenance of selected sections of the
Lifeline Road Network using Microenterprises.
(d) 
Carrying out of detailed design studies, related technical supervision activities
and independent technical audits for rehabilitation activities under the Project.
(e) 
Carrying out of road safety improvement works, including Black Spots
improvements.
Part 2: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Provision of support for Project coordination and implementation through, the
financing of operating costs required for Project administration and monitoring (including
financial audits).
(b) 
Acquisition of a road asset management system database, including installation
and training to ARD personnel for the use of said database, together with road survey
equipment for surveying road conditions and traffic.
(c) 
Carrying out of a 
road safety program, including, inter alia, (i) the detailed
design for carrying out of Black Spots improvement works; (ii) the provision of training
programs for ARD personnel; (iii) road safety educational practices in Safe Villages
schools, and (iv) carrying out of road safety campaigns linked to the Lifeline Road
Network .
(d) 
Provision of technical assistance for, inter alia, the: (i) carrying out of a
feasibility study for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads using a performance-
based approach, including the identification of at least one road section ; (ii) carrying out
of studies on social monitoring and evaluation related to the Project, as well as road
sector financial sustainability; (iii) provision of training to MOTC staff and local
6
contractors 
on 
the 
new 
concepts introduced by the Project, including design and
implementation of multi-year performance based contracts, efficient design standards,
and planning and contract monitoring for MOTC and ARD staff; and (iv) carrying out of
technical studies and detailed designs required for the preparation of potential future
investments in the road sector.
7
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project the TPIU within MOTC,
responsible 
for the management, coordination, 
implementation, 
monitoring and
evaluation of the Project. TPIU shall have a structure, responsibilities, and key staff with
functions, experience, responsibilities, qualifications and financing acceptable to the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules, methods, guidelines, standard
documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including the following: (i)
the detailed description of Project implementation activities and the detailed institutional
arrangements of the Project; (ii) criteria for selecting the road sections to be rehabilitated
and/or maintained under the Project, based on economic return or/and population being
served; (iii) guidelines to follow in case of unexpected findings of objects with possible
cultural or archeological value; (iv) the Project administrative, accounting, auditing,
reporting, financial (including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and
disbursement procedures (including customized statements of expenditures and all
pertinent standard documents and model contracts in relation thereto); (v) the monitoring
indicators for the Project; (vi) criteria for the selection of Microenterprises for the
carrying out of Part 1(c) of the Project; and (vii) the EMF and the RPF. In the event that
any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of
this Agreement shall prevail. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree
in writing, the Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to
enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
3. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of standards recommended by the European committee
for standardization on design and construction of roads and highways (in addition to the
national standards) in the design and construction of road works under the Project.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall, through MOTC, implement the Project in accordance with:
(a) 
the EMF, and thereafter implement the pertinent EMP, in accordance with their
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, ensuring that civil works will not
8
commence in any road section unless the EMP for the respective section of the
road has been prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank; and
(b) 
the RPF, and if resettlement/land acquisition is foreseen for specific road
sections, thereafter implement the pertinent resettlement action plan 
or
abbreviated plan, as the case may be, all in accordance with their terms and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank, ensuring that civil works will not commence in
specific road unless the pertinent resettlement action plan or abbreviated plan for
the respective section of the road has been prepared and approved by the Bank
and implemented by the Borrower.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MOTC, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MOTC, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOTC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MOTC, shall have the Financial Statements of the Project audited
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
9
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be
used for procurement of works and goods under the
Project, provided that the following provisions are
complied with:
(i) 
entities in which the Borrower owns a
majority shareholding 
shall 
not be invited 
to
participate in tenders for the Government, unless they
are, and can be shown to be, legally and financially
autonomous and operate under commercial law;
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large
and complex works projects;
(iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only
pertain to past contract performance, 
financial,
managerial and technical capabilities of bidders;
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and
severally liable for their obligations;
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening;
(vi) 
bids can be cancelled and new bids invited,
only if the conditions of clause 2.61 and 2.64 of the
Procurement Guidelines are met;
(vii) 
all 
bid 
evaluation 
criteria 
shall 
be
quantifiable in monetary terms or expressed as a
10
pass/fail criteria;
(viii) 
advance Bank's approval is required for any
substantial 
modifications 
in 
the 
contract
scope/conditions during implementation; and
(ix) 
the Borrower shall use standard bidding
documents, satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
(d) 
Community Participation procedures which have been
found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
(d) Least Cost Selection
(e) Single Source Selection
(f) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.1 to 5.5 of the
Consultants Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
11
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including 
the 
"World 
Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
44,887,500 
80%
consulting services,
consultants' services, and
Operating Costs under the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
112,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
45,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made
from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,000,000 equivalent may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after November 13, 2012, for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall ensure, until completion of the Project, that adequate budgetary
resources are allocated and made available for the maintenance of those sections of the
Lifeline Road Network rehabilitated under the Project.
12
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15 
3.33%
Beginning May 15, 2023
through May 15, 2037
On November 15, 2037 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
14
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"ARD" means the Armenian Roads Directorate, a State non-commercial organization,
established by the Borrower's Decree No. 1720-N of December 2, 2004., responsible for
maintaining interstate and republican main roads, or any successor thereto.
3. 
"Black Spots" means accident-prone locations along any given road.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
6. 
"Environmental Management Framework or EMF' means the Borrower's framework
acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on August 28, 2012,
which contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including:
(i) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions and potential
direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project;
(ii) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation of
environmental management plans, when applicable; (iii) the recommendation 
of
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and (iv) measures for enhancing
each identified positive impacts.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plans" or "EMPs" means: (a) any of the following
Borrower documents, all dated November 5, 2012: (i) Plan for the M9-Arteni-Aragats-
Getap road; (ii) Plan for the MI-Agarak-Byurakan-Antarut road; (iii) Plan for the M5-
Nor Kesaria-Shenavan-Getashen road; (iv) Plan for the Nerkin Getashen-Verin
Getashen-Madina road; (v) Plan for the Mayakovski-Nor Gyugh-Kotayk-Kapputan-
Zovachen road; (vi) Plan for the M7-Arevashogh road; and (vii) Plan for the M12-
Kornidzor road, setting forth the environmental management actions applicable to
improvement works to be carried out during the first year of implementation of Part 1(a)
of the Project; and (b) any of the Borrower's plans derived from the EMF and to be
prepared during the implementation of the Project previous to the commencement of any
civil works under the Project.
8. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
15
9. 
"Lifeline Road Network" means a priority network comprised of about 4,000 kilometers
of mainly main republican roads and about 2,250 kilometers of local roads, connecting
rural communities to at least one interstate road.
10. 
"Microenterprises" means cooperatives or any other legal entities which shall have been
selected by the Borrower and approved by the Bank for the purposes of carrying out
routine maintenance activities under Part 1(c) of the Project, including, inter alia, basic
cleaning of the roadway, drainage systems, road reserves and any existing road structure,
minor repairs of roadways and road structures.
11. 
"MOTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Communication.
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
December 6, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract" means a multi-year contract entered into by
MOTC with a private sector contractor, which contract obligates said private sector
contractor to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single
package.
15. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project,
which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily
or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
16. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the document prepared by the Borrower and
published and available to the public on September 14, 2012 and outlining general
implementation procedures, 
mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
involuntary resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for the preparation
and implementation of resettlement plans, as said framework may be amended from time
to time with the Bank's prior approval.
17. 
"Safe Villages" means the program that combines traffic calming measures, footway
construction and an education program in schools located in villages near new improved
roads, in order to prevent road accidents, especially those involving vulnerable road users
such as pedestrians, children and the elderly.
16
18. 
"TPIU" means the Transport Project Implementation unit, a state institution within
MOTC established by the Borrower's Decree No. 1930-N of December 28, 2006 and
referred to in Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable operational costs (which would not have been
incurred absent the Project), incurred by the TPIU related to Project implementation,
including inter alia, the costs of communication, supplies, printing and publications,
vehicle operation and maintenance, office refurbishment, maintenance and utilities,
purchase and maintenance of office equipment and furniture and facilities, office property
insurance costs, project financial audit expenses, local and international travel and
training costs (including accommodations, transportation costs and per diem), bank
charges, staff salaries (including associated taxes and charges) but excluding salaries of
civil servants, staff insurance and social benefit package costs, logistics services, and
such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank
20. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual prepared by the Borrower referred to in Section
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17
