OFFUCAL
W0CUMENTSI
LOAN NUMBER 8262-CN
Loan Agreement
(Nanchang Urban Rail Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8262-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2013, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTFNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of, thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the.Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower. withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that, any of the
parties to the Subsidiary Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its respective
obligations thereunder.
-2-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of NM and URC in accordance with
Section I.A. I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NM and URC, respectively, and is
legally binding upon the parties, respectively, in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile: 86-10-6855-1125
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H- Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
f"W* 
_ 
41F_1
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
k
Title: 
, C
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to provide an effective urban mass rapid transit system of
appropriate quality along the Line 2 corridor from ZhanQianNanDaDao Station to XinJiaAn
Station.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: 
Construction of Line 2
Construction of stations, tunnels, track, depot and operational buildings necessary to the
operation of the Line 2 corridor from ZhanQianNanDaDao Station to XinJiaAn Station.
Part B: 
Equipment for Line 2
Acquisition of equipment for the operation of Line 2, including, inter alia, rolling stock,
power supply, control system, signaling system, communication system, monitoring
system, fare collection system, safety and security system, ventilation and air
conditioning system, water supply, sewerage and fire protection system, and station
auxiliary equipment.
Part C: 
Design, Construction Management and Technical Assistance
Provision of technical advisory services for: (i) design and construction; (ii) construction
management and quality assurance; and (iii) technical assistance and capacity building to
relevant staff in NM and the URC to take steps to improve ridership levels, to increase
land value around stations, and to improve financial management and internal audit
functions for the URC.
Part D: 
Safeguards and Other Construction Costs
Provision of costs related to land acquisition and resettlement, construction site
preparation, and other Project related cost, including, inter alia, for engineering
insurance, work safety insurance and inspection and acceptance.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions shall be recovered over
a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents
and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the
Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-6-
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, all
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with the provisions of Section L.C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in
Annex B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty
five days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
-7-
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures iii each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of
Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non- 
249,375,000 
100%
consulting 
services, 
and
consultants' 
services for the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
625,000 
Amount 
payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the 
General
Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount 
due
Rate Collar premium 
pursuant to Section
2.07(c) 
of 
this
Agreement
I TOTAL AMOUNT 
250,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after April 15, 2013, for Eligible Expenditures under Category
(1).
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2018.
-8-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each December 15 and June 15
Beginning December 15, 2018
through June 15, 2043 
2%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
-.9-
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or-after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4, 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Curreucy that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 10-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
4. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
5. 
"EIA" means the Environmental Impact Assessment, including the report associated with
it, dated April 7, 2013.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or the acronym "ESMP" mean the
Environmental and Social Management Plan dated April 7. 2013, adopted by NM, and
any other ESMPs to be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, which plans set out
the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as administrative
and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may
be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto.
7. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"Integration Plan" means the multi-modal integration plan prepared by NM and URC (as
hereinafter defined) dated April 9, 2013, which aims at integrating the necessary physical
facilities and services for different transport modes along Line 2 (As hereinafter defined).
9. 
"Jiangxi Province" means the province of Jiangxi in the territory of the Borrower.
-Il1-
10. 
"Line 2" means the urban railway line between the Line 2 depot and XinJiaAn Station in
Nanchang (as hereinafter defined).
11. 
"Nanchang" means the city of Nanchang in Jiangxi Province.
12. 
"NM" means Nanchang Municipality, in Jiangxi Province.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consultiig Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March
8, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Jiangxi Province.
17. 
"Project Leading Group" or "PLG" means the Project Leading Group established by the
Project Implementing Entity in August 2012, to provide overall leadership, policy
guidance and institutional coordination in Project preparation and implementation, and
any successor thereto, and referred to in Section I.A.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
18. 
"PMO" means the Project management office, established in URC by NM on August 17,
2012, to coordinate the preparation of the Project and supervise and monitor its
implementation, and referred to in paragraph Section I.A.2(b) of Section I of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
19. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or the acronym "RAP" means the Resettlement Action Plan
dated March 21, 2013, and all such RAPs to be prepared by the Project Implementing
Entity consistently with the RPF (as hereafter defined), for purposes of carrying out the
Project, which plans shall set out, inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures governing
the acquisition of land required for the Project and related facilities, including access
roads, construction camps, borrow pits, spoil disposal sites, resettlement sites and
quarries; (b) actions and measures for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons
and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (c) the criteria and procedures for developing
and implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the
adverse social impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in locations that are
not directly identified in the RAP; and (d) reporting and monitoring arrangements to
ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the
- 12 -
prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes
supplemental to said plan.
20. 
"RPF" means 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or the acronym "RPF" means the
Resettlement Policy Framework dated March 21, 2013, prepared and adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Bank, and referred to in paragraph C of
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; said Framework setting out the
policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of
resettlement action plans as may be,required for Project activities, as said Framework
may be revised from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank; and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said Framework.
21. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the EIA, the ESMP, the RAP and the RPF,
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments.
22. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A. I of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement pursuant to which NM shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to URC.
23. 
"URC" means the Urban Railway Group Company, a limited company wholly owned
by, and operating in, Nanchang, under a business license registration number
3601001195103134, and established in October 2008, under the Borrower's Modern
Enterprises Law promulgated on July 1, 1994 and revised on October 27, 2005.
- 13 -
