OFFtCIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8288-RU
Loan Agreement
(Public Finance Management Technical Assistance Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
6zl- 6,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8288-RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 1%LCeI 
601 
6 
, 
2013, 
between 
the 
RUSSIAN
FEDERATION ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION,
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
LIBOR (or such other Referencd Rate in accordance with paragraph 82 of the Appendix
of the General Conditions and Section 3.02(c) of the General Conditions) for the Loan
Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall
instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Finance with the assistance
of the Project Implementation Unit, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMIEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementation Unit shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Agency Agreement.
(b) 
The Agency Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or the Project Implementation Unit to
carry out the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely: any event
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the Agency
Agreement has been entered into between the Ministry of Finance and the Project
,Implementation Unit in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3(a) of Section L.A
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Agency
Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Project Implementation Unit in accordance with its terms.
5.03 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement or such later date as may be established by the Bank pursuant to Section
9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
,The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance or authorized Deputy Minister
of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation
Ilyinka Street 9
109097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex: 
Facsimile:
112008 
(7-495) 925-0889
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED7 
act 
R ssAn 
rof 
e 
pion,
AGREED at 
.
C 
( 
, ____ 
_, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By
Aut 
rized Representative
Name: 
er 
c Adt
Title: 
/( /7 / 
er
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: ,Z6242 7a a'(
Title: 
0,_)_6 4_
Ole /
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving transparency and
results focus in public financial management and building institutional foundations for improved
budget efficiency, effectiveness and accountability.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. 
Improving the Efficiency of Tax Policy and Tax Administration
Support the implementation of the Borrower's Main Directions of Tax Policy of the
Russian Federation, inter alia, through provision of technical assistance for the following:
(a) 
Improving transparency, equity and efficiency of the fiscal regime for oil and gas
activities by, inter alia: modeling current upstream and downstream activities to assess
the economic and financial impact of alternative policy options; studying other countries'
experience with fiscal regime changes; designing a target fiscal regime; and preparing
applicable legal and regulatory instruments and testing their application.
(b) 
Decreasing the use of transfer pricing for tax avoidance by, inter alia: developing
guidelines and regulations on transfer pricing; formulating rules on controlled foreign
companies; developing regulations and methodological approaches for advance pricing
agreements; enhancing skills of staff of the Federal Tax Service of Russia ("FTS"); and
securing for employees of the FTS and the FTS Interregional Inspectorate for Price
Control for Taxation Purposes, access to information that will be used to compare
conditions of transactions between related parties with conditions of transactions between
unrelated parties.
(c) 
Improving analysis of tax expenditures by, inter alia: designing a methodology for
improving legal regulation, practical provision and administration of tax expenditures.
(d) 
Tax policy development within the Russian Federation Customs Union with Kazakhstan
and Belarus by, inter alia: reviewing VAT legislation and procedures for necessary
changes; developing a VAT information exchange system within the customs union; and
reviewing excise duties for necessary changes.
(e) 
Modernization of tax procedures to align with present technology upgrades and
improving tax laws to align with present business models and products by, inter alia,
developing procedures within the tax code to facilitate risk management and anti-
avoidance rules, sub-ordinate legislation, instructions and clarifications for implement;
and developing recommendations (based on review of legislation) for improvement of
financial sector taxation, taxation of non-hydrocarbon minerals, and double taxation
avoidance treaties.
(f) 
Improving the design and implementation of special tax regimes by, inter alia, reviewing
the applicable taxation regime and developing a strategy to facilitate compliance and
prevent abuse by taxpayers.
-6-
(g) 
Improving taxpayer public services by, inter alia, implementing a program to enhance tax
literacy, including designing and implementing public information programs and
developing infrastructure for provision of information services to taxpayers in local tax
offices.
(h) 
Improving the pre-court appeals system within FTS by, inter alia, developing rules and
procedures aimed at improving the credibility of the system and designing and
conducting training programs for tax employees.
Part 2. 
Improving Efficiency of the System of Inter-Governmental Fiscal Relations and
Sub-National Public Finance Manaaement ('TFM")
Support increase in efficiency and effectiveness of the system of federal and regional
fiscal transfers to regional and municipal governments, inter alia, through provision of technical
assistance for the following:
(a) 
Improving assignment of fiscal responsibilities across levels of government by, inter alia,
analyzing 
assignments 
between 
different 
levels 
of 
governance; 
developing
methodological recommendations on enhancement of the sub-national budget revenue
base; and developing capacity for performing risk analysis and proposing risk mitigating
measures for sub-national budgets.
(b) 
Improving the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system by, inter alia, preparing a
medium-term fiscal federalism strategy and implementation plan; streamlining existing
federal and regional funding mechanisms; developing recommendations on the system of
targeted intergovernmental fiscal transfers; creating 
a mechanism of incentive and
sanctions to promote PFM reforms in regions highly dependent on fiscal transfers; and
improving the equalization transfer system.
(c) 
Improving PFM quality, transparency, and anticorruption measures at the sub-national
level by, inter alia, developing regulation and methodologies for quality enhancement of
public services delivery; and developing guidelines for sub-national governments on
incorporation of anticorruption mechanisms into the budget process and increasing
transparency of their budget cycle.
(d) 
Facilitating implementation of program budgeting at the sub-national level by, inter alia,
providing advice on the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of budget programs, and
capacity building programs for staff, drafting relevant legislation and instructions, and
developing a system of non-governmental 
monitoring of efficiency of public
expenditures.
(e) 
Improving capacity of staff at the MOF and in regional and municipal governments,
including on issues related to the budget.
-7-
Part 3. 
Support for the Development of an Electronic Budget ("E-Budget") System
Support implementation of selected activities within the Ministry of Finance's broader
Electronic Budget Implementation Action Plan 2011-2016, inter alia, through provision of
technical assistance for the following:
(a) 
Improving legal and methodological foundation for automations of budget procedures
and integration of budget process information flows.
(b) 
Review of the latest international tendencies and best practice on automation of budget
process and implementing E-Budget systems.
(c) 
Expansion of analytical and information management tools under the E-Budget system
and the development of the unified standards for data storage and exchange.
(d) 
Building capacity of budget sector staff through training programs, knowledge-sharing
workshops and conferences, and by developing 
a code of good practices on
implementing the E-Budget and improving public access to information.
(e) 
Enhancement of the E-Budget system implementation by developing implementation
regulation and guidelines and establishing quality assurance processes.
(f) 
Establishment of support for emerging needs during the implementation of said action
plan.
Part 4. 
Enhancine Budget Efficiency
Support implementation of the Borrower's program for enhancing efficiency of budget
expenditures, inter alia, through provision of technical assistance for the design and
implementation of the following key aspects of the program:
(a) 
Improving budget planning and preparation by, inter alia, revising medium and long term
budget planning processes to better integrate capital planning and procurement planning,
strengthening the links to strategic planning, and implementation of fiscal rules; and
continuing support for program-based budgeting.
(b) 
Supporting innovation in service delivery by, inter alia, developing guidance on
governance, PFM and accountability aspects when using autonomous agencies and
partnerships with the private sector and non-government organizations.
(c) 
Improving internal controls and internal audit by, inter alia, rationalizing and
modernizing the system of state financial control; and establishing modern systems of
internal control and internal audit, across the public sector.
(d) 
Improving accounting and financial reporting by, inter alia, developing a full set of
federal standards for public sector accounting.
(e) 
Improving revenue management by, inter alia, developing recommendations for budget
administration system at all budget levels.
-8-
(f) 
Improving public procurement and contracting by, inter alia, supporting implementation,
of the new federal contracting system, with particular attention to budget planning and
enhanced transparency and accountability in procurement and contract implementation.
(g) 
Improving the budget process in the area of cooperation with international financial
institutions.
(h) 
Supporting the preparation of related follow-up operations.
Part 5. 
Project Management
Provision of support to the Project Implementing Unit for implementation of the Project
through the financing of Operating Costs.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the
following:
(a) 
The Working Group established by the MOF, responsible for the preparation and
implementation of the Project.
(b) 
The Sub-groups established by the Working Group, responsible for coordination
and management of their respective activities under Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the
Project.
(c) 
The Project Implementation Unit responsible for provision of day-to-day
implementation support to the MOF.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
cause the MOF, with the assistance of the PIU, to carry out the Project in
accordance with provisions of the Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived said manual or any
provisions thereof, except with the prior written approval of the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall:
(a) 
enter into an Agency Agreement with the PIU, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for provision of day-to-day support for the
implementation of the Project, which terms and conditions shall include
compliance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Project Operations
Manual;
(b) 
at all times throughout the duration of the Project, cause the PIU to perform its
obligations under the Agency Agreement.
- 10 -
B. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
ensure that sufficient annual allocations be made in the Borrower's budget for the
Borrower's counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained, a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. The audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower,
provided that the first and last audit periods may, with the agreement of the Bank, cover a
period of up to eighteen (18) months. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months of the end of the fiscal
year.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-11 --
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
-
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Competitive Bidding,
* which may be used for goods and non-consulting services (including Database
Subscription Services) for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule 2
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Least Cost Selection
(c) Selection based on Consultant's Qualification
(d) Single-source Selection
(e) Individual Consultant
-12-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
E. 
Procurement of Training
Training (as defined in the Appendix to this Loan Agreement) shall be procured in
accordance with agreed procedures set out in the Project Operations Manual.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
'finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
The
Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain one or more designated
accounts in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.04(a) of the General Conditions.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants' services, 
45,000,000 
35%
and Training
(2) Operating Costs 
5,000,000 
100%
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000M000
- 13 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
-14-
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for goods for which Part B of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be procured
in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations of the Borrower. In order to
assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be modified as set forth
in the following paragraphs.
Eligibility
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall be
placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those
* imposed by primary boycotts.
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on requirements to
joint-venture with national firms.
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating.
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of, inter alia, place of
registration, ownership, and small size. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of
source of labor, material or equipment.
5. 
Government-owned entitles shall be eligible to participate in bidding for contracts if they
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
law and are not a dependent agency of the purchaser or the contractor.
Standard Bidding Documents
6. 
Until a modified version of the Borrower's standard bidding document has been approved
for use by the Bank, the Bank's own standard bidding document shall be used.
Advertising bidding opportunities time for bid preparation
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation.
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least thirty (30) days for bid preparation and
submission of bids (excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelves goods or
standard specification commodities or small value works).
8. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurements involving large or complex contracts
shall be advertised.
-15-
9. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post qualification)
shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so specified shall be
used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders which are deemed
not qualified to bid shall not be further considered and shall be rejected.
Bid opening
10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be
considered and shall be returned unopened.
Rebidding
11. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received provided
that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed capable
of performing the contract in accordance with the criteria in the bidding documents.
Bid evaluation
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and evaluation
criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so specified
shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of bids for
goods and works contracts.
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be present during
evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to any bidder until
the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as
"substantially not responsive". Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.
15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be
applied. Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder.
16. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with "winning" bidders prior to
contract award.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2019
through February 15, 2031 
3.85%
On August 15, 2031 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 17 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in;each
* Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-
8-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower,
represented by the MOF, and the PIU pursuant to Section 5.01 of, and paragraph 3(a) of
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to, this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans & IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
5. 
"Database Subscription Services" means access to or subscription to databases that
facilitate comparisons of conditions of transactions between related parties with
conditions of transactions between unrelated parties.
6. 
"Electronic Budget Implementation Action Plan 2011-2016" means the "Action Plan on
Implementing the Concept of Development and Implementation of the State Integrated
Management Information System" approved by the Government Commission on
Introducing Information Technologies in Government Bodies and Municipal Authorities
Operations on September 20, 2011, pursuant to Minutes of the Commission N2 19, and
amended on November 22, 2012, pursuant to the Minutes of the Commission 2 10, as
such action plan may be updated from time to time.
7. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank for 
Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans" dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"Main Directions of Tax Policy of the Russian Federation" means the Main Directions of
Tax Policy of the Russian Federation for the medium term, updated on an annual basis
and published in the MOF's website.
9. 
"Ministry of Finance" and the acronym "MOF" meaa the Borrower's Ministry of Finance
or any successor thereto.
10. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental costs incurred by the PIU on account
of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including: staff salaries; social
charges; consultants' 
services to support PIU activities, Project audit; training,
conferences and seminars attended by PIU staff; dissemination of Project related
information; office rent and utilities; office equipment and supplies; office and equipment
insurance, maintenance and repair; vehicle rental, maintenance and repair; travel;
communication; translation and interpretation; bank charges; and other miscellaneous
costs directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the
Bank.
-19-
11. 
"Project Implementation Unit" and the acronym 
"PIU" mean Non-Comnercial
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER), a
legal entity organized and established pursuant to the law of the Borrower on non-
commercial organizations, and operating on the basis of its Charter dated July 5, 1996, as
amended on June 2, 1997 and June 10, 2003, and was selected by the Borrower to assist
the MOF in the implementation of the Project and which is a party to the Agency
Agreement.
12. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the
Working Group, 
setting 
out the organizational 
arrangements 
and 
operational
requirements (including financial management and procurement) and procedures related
to Project implementation, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the
approval of the Bank.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June 5
2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Training" means expenditures for Project-related training and knowledge sharing events,
other than through service providers' contracts, including the cost of study tours, training
courses, seminars, workshops, conferences, training materials, space and equipment
rental, travel, per diem and visa support for trainees (including civil servants at the
federal and regional levels and non-civil servants involved in Project implementation),
trainers and related organizational, logistical and technical support.
16. 
"Working Group" means the Working Group established pursuant to Order of the
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation N 367 dated October 15, 2012, and
referred to in paragraph 1(a) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
