OFFicIAL
BOCUMENTS.
LOAN NUMBER 8234-CN
Loan Agreement
(Jiangxi Poyang Lake Basin and Ecological Economic Zone
Small Town Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A1 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8234-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2013, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDMONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million Dollars
($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal. amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
-2-
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
a,S
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
** 
_ 
^ 
-
-3-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve key public services in participating small towns
of Jiangxi Province through improvements to prioritized infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Transport Infrastructure Improvement
1. 
Construction and upgrading of urban and country roads in selected counties and cities of
Jiangxi Province including, inter alia: (a) pavement of road base; (b) construction and
rebuilding of cross river bridges and culverts; (c) layout of urban sanitary pipelines, urban
drainage pipelines, and electric cable; (d) construction of greenbelt and bus stops; and (e)
other urban road ancillary facilities.
2. 
Construction of a new urban central bus station in Gongqingcheng City.
Part B. 
Water Resources Management Infrastructure
1. 
Improvement of flood protection and drainage services in urban city areas of Jiangxi
Province, including: (a) strengthening of dikes; (b) construction of major urban drainage
pumping stations; (c) provision of access roads for dike systems; (d) provision of cross
dike structures; and (e) beautification and landscaping along rivers.
2. 
Construction of wastewater and storm water collection pipes, including the construction
of wastewater and storm water collection pipes.
3. 
Construction of a water supply and treatment plant in Luxi County, including the
construction of associated urban reticulation works.
4. 
Restoration and protection of wetland areas along the Mianjiang River in Jiangxi
Province, including: (a) the restoration and protection of wetland; and (b) the provision of
environmental education facilities to local residents.
Part C. 
Project Management and Capacity Building
1. 
Improving the institutional capacity of the Project Implementing Entity and Project
Participants to plan, design, construct, and sustainably manage modem, high quality
infrastructure for the delivery of improved services, particularly in the areas of
transportation, water resources management through, inter alia: (a) the provision of
technical, managerial, and financial skills training for government staff at the provincial
and county/city levels; (b) provision of technical assistance for the development of
transportation plans, flash flood prevention and management 
and (c) upgrade of
integrated transportation systems in Gongqingcheng City.
-4-
2. 
Supporting the overall development of the Project Implementing Entity to coordinate and
manage the implementation of the Project, including the establishment and operation of a
management information system, a monitoring and evaluation system, and the
establishment of Project management offices (including the purchase of office
equipment).
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section L 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to the
Project Implementing Entity the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
Categories set forth in the table in Section IV of this Schedule, on the following principal
terms:
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant Section 4.05(c) of the General
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of twenty five (25) years, inclusive
of a grace period of eight (8) years.
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents
and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the
Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, including the provisions thereof that are
applicable to the recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower.
-6-
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, all
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Project
Implementing Entity and the Project Participants to comply with the provisions of
Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section H1. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in-accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the
Bank and set forth in the Project Implementation Plan. Each Project Report shall cover
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
-7-
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and ffl of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, m, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consulting services.
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be
used.
Procurement Methods
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding. 
In addition, the procedures to be
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China
promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines:
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's territory,
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which
may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and
prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of
advertisement 
in such newspaper and the deadline 
for
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in
detail in the bidding documents.
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders.
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required
form and amount of such security.
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for
receipt of such bids.
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not
be required to be present at the bid opening.
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the
form of pass/fail requirements.
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be.
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
submitted.
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank,
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower's territory may
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xii) 
All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of
-9-
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding
shall not take place without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or a free and
open access website and shall identify the name and offered
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and
summary scope of the awarded contract.
(xiv) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have in place provisions
for bidders to protest.
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality-and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) 
Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual)
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-10-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General-Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works 
144,835,000 
68%
(2) 
Goods, 
Consultants' 
4,790,000 
100%
services and Training
(3) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments
made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2013, for all Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
I. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
September 15, 2021 
1.90%
March 15, 2022 
1.95%
September 15, 2022 
2.00%
March 15, 2023 
2.05%
September 15, 2023 
2.10%
March 15, 2024 
2.15%
September 15, 2024 
2.20%
March 15, 2025 
2.26%
September 15, 2025 
2.32%
March 15, 2026 
2.37%
September 15, 2026 
2.43%
March 15, 2027 
2.49%
September 15, 2027 
2.56%
March 15, 2028 
2.62%
September 15, 2028 
2.69%
March 15, 2029 
2.75%
September 15, 2029 
2.82%
March 15, 2030 
2.89%
September 15, 2030 
2.96%
March 15, 2031 
3.04%
September 15, 2031 
3.11%
March 15, 2032 
3.19%
September 15, 2032 
3.27%
March 15, 2033 
3.35%
September 15, 2033 
3.44%
March 15, 2034 
3.52%
September 15, 2034 
3.61%
-12-
March 15, 2035 
3.70%
September 15, 2035 
3.79%
March 15,2036 
3.89%
September 15, 2036 
3.99%
March 15, 2037 
4.09%
September 15, 2037 
4.19%
March 15, 2038 
4.31%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
-13-
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section L Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
4. 
"County/City 
Project 
Management 
Office" means 
a county/city 
level 
Project
management office, established by each Project Participant and to be maintained
according to the provisions of paragraph A. 1(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
5. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
6. 
"Environmental Codes of Practice" or the acronym "ECOPs" means the detailed
practices to address construction related impacts of the Project implementation, included
in the EMP.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or the acronym "EMP" means the Environmental
Management Plan dated October 29, 2012, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity,
which plan sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said
plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto.
8. 
"Financial Management Manual" means the Project Implementing Entity's manual,
included in the Project Implementation Plan, setting out financial management,
disbursement, and audit procedures to be observed in the carrying out of the Project
consistent with the provisions in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank for 
Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
-15-
10. 
"Mianjiang River EIA" means the environmental impact assessment dated October 29,
2012, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, which plan sets out the environmental
protection measures in respect of the Project activities to take place in the Ruijin wetland,
as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of
said instruments, as said instruments may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Manual" means the Project Implementing Entity's manual, included in the
Project Implementation Plan, setting out the procurement methods and procedures to be
observed in the carrying out of the Project.
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 19, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
15. 
"Project Implementation Plan'' means the plan (which includes the Financial
Management Manual, the Procurement Manual, the Procurement Plan, the Mianjing
River EIA, the EMP and ECOPs, the RAPs, the Project performance indicators,
provisions to be followed with regard to dam safety standards and dam management
under the Project, technical models, and other operational arrangements for the Project)
dated December 31, 2012, prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, and referred to
in paragraph 2 of Section I.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may
be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Jiangxi Province, or any successor
thereto.
17. 
"Project Leading Groups" means the groups referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and organized as follows: (a) at the provincial level,
the group shall be chaired by the relevant provincial Vice-Governor, along with the
leaders of the relevant provincial departments (including, without limitation: the
Development and Reform Commission, the Finance Department, the Transport
Department, the Water Resources Department, the Flood Protection office, the
Environmental Protection Department, and other institutions and/or agencies as
appropriate); and (b) at the county/city level, the group shall be chaired by the respective
-16-
county/city Mayor or relevant Vice Mayor, along with the leaders of the relevant
institutions and/or agencies at the county/city level, as appropriate.
18. 
"Project Participants" means, collectively, the following counties and cities of Jiangxi's
Province participating in the Project, and selected by agreement between the Bank, the
Project Implementing Entity and the respective Project Participant:
(a) Jinxian County; (b) Luxi County; (c) Jiujiang County; (d) Gongqingcheng City; (e)
Ganxian County; (f) Ruijin City; (g) Jinggangshan City; (h) Yifeng County; (i) Nanfeng
County; (j) Dexing City and (k) Hengfeng County;
provided that the list of such Project Participants may be amended from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank; and "Project Participant" means, individually,
any of such Project Participants.
19. 
"Provincial Project Management Office" means the office referred to in Section I.A. 1(b)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, chaired by the Director-General or Deputy
Director-General of the provincial Development and Reform Commission, and composed
by officials and experts from the different departments, institutions and agencies
represented in the provincial Project Leading Group.
20. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or the acronym "RAPs" means, collectively, the following
plans which set out the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and
other assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons
on account of the execution of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be revised from
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank:
(a) Consolidated RAP of Jiangxi Province, dated September 29, 2012; (b) RAP of Jinxian
County, dated August 17, 2012; (c) RAP of Luxi County, dated August 17, 2012; (d)
RAP of Jiujiang County, dated August 17, 2012; (e) RAP of Gongqingcheng City, dated
September 29, 2012; (f) RAP of Ganxian County, dated September 29, 2012; (g) RAP of
Ruijin City, dated August 17, 2012; (h) RAP of Jinggangshan City, dated September 29,
2012; (i) RAP of Yifeng County, dated September 29, 2012; () RAP of Nanfeng County,
dated September 29, 2012; (k) RAP of Dexing City, dated August 17, 2012; and (1) RAP
of Hengfeng County, dated August 17, 2012.
The acronym "RAP" means, individually, any such plan.
21. 
"Training" means training activities under the Project, based on annual work plans and
budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and domestic
and overseas study trips and training. The related costs include travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
course preparation and implementation.
-17-
