[M
OFFICtAL
LOAN NUMBER 8212-PE
Lo an Agreement
(Higher Edu cation Quality Improvement Project)
between
RE PUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAl BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AN) DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
· －-.---------
－
一
〕
乎
計
-J
l
t1
;
霎
I
一
},
勰
。
！
;
}
1
-
I
l
飛
萬
I
!I
、
倡
&{
!七
}
S奮
且
念
〕
L
i
}
l
-l
號
要
-
之
}l
}
I!
-
l
量
I
-l
基
奮
{}1
-斗
、
｝
1
i
{乏
、
｝
】
-
l
l
-
-
}】
I
l
-
-
-II
l
L DAN AGREEMENT
o_-
nit dated 
Ok
Agreeme 
2013, between REPUBLIC OF PERU
("Borrower") and 
INTE 
IAT10 A 
ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GEr FERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Condi-ions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part )f this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context reqt ires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meai.ings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this, kgre.ment.
A RTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to Ivrid t ) the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred -.0 in this Agrt ement, the amount of twenty five million Dollars
($25,000,000), as su,,.h ai riount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversior in .ccordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to a;sist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agrei,-rnent ("Pro i ect"
2.02. 
The Bon,ower may witb draw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section TV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any a(tion required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section i!, the Borrower'! Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower's
Director of Indebtcdr ess i nd Public Treasury (DGETP), or any person whom any
of them s.iall designate in writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payab e by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of tLe Lc an amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 day., afte -the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by t ie Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Pate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, that upon c Cot version of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan. the interes: pa) able by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall b,. del -rmined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article TV of the C ener it Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withd -awn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues f Dr a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instcad I c calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General C onditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are Febi uary 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of he Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set fo -th in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower nay it any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the 
oan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amzount of tho Lc an, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Cu-ency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion cf th. principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding frcrn a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any port ion )f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to i Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable S :rea,, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan with ]raw - and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to i Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any por:ion )f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Varia >le Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Ary conversic n reo tuested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Cor ditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Artic e IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ART"CLE IH- 
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower throu),h COSUSINEACE, declares its commitment to the
objective of the Proje-.t. '"o this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the UCP, a ur it with financial, economic and administrate independence
within COSUSINEAC E, al i in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon ti e provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrow,r an I the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Proj:ct i: carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreem(nt.
-2-
ARTICLE IB -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Borrower or any oth,.r at thority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the rcstructuring, diss Alution or disestablishment of COSUSINEACE or the
UCP or for the suspens on of its operations, so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opivion ,f the Bank, the Project and the ability of the Borrower
through COSUSINEACE and/or UCP to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Even: of icceleration consists of, namely that, any of the events
specified in Section z.01 1f this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V
EFFECI IVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Add.tional Conc itior s of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that
The UCP has been -stab lished within COSUSINEACE as provided in Section
I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 t) thi:, Agreement.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the )rovisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date nine y (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case late, than the eight en (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on Junc 4, 2 )14.
ARTICLE ITI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Bornower's repr.sen ative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided
that the Borrower's Direc tor of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or
herself, represent tht Boi rower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are
considered of an admini;trative and non-financial nature. The signing by such
Director of an amen imej it shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that
any such amendme-At is considered to be administrative and non-financial in
nature.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Adcress Is:
Ministry of Econom-y an( Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Facsimile: 
(511) 62 i-9921
-3-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for I Reco- istruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United Statos of Ameriia
Cable address: 
Tel-x: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFlRtD 
248 423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64 45(MCI)
AGREED it 
, Iay-w 
, as of the day and year
first above written.
RE 3UBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
IN''ERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RE CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A horized Representative
-4-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The obje-tive of tho Pr<ject is to improve the Borrower's higher education
quality assurance system thi ougl the promotion of self and external evaluations, the
financing of Impr:vement Phns, f nd the provision of information.
The Project consists (of the following parts:
Part 1: Developmnent of Metiods Instruments, Norms and Capacity for Evaluation and
Accreditation
Strengthening the capacity o: CO qEAU, CONEACES, HEIs and EEFAs to handle their
respective respon;ibilities wilhin I ie quality assurance system, through:
(a) 
the enbancirg ol CONEAU and CONEACE's management, planning
and evaluation capacity by developing standards, norms and procedures
for evaluation an I accreditation, including those for the supervision of
the EEFAs.
(b) 
the strengthening of the capacity of: (i) HEIs to engage in both internal
and external eval iation processes; and (ii) EEFAs to undertake external
evaluations, inch ding learning from other experiences at the regional
and internatinal evels.
(c) 
the provisior of s ipport for the technical and administrative management
cf the Project.
Part 2: Development and :ons olidation of a Higher Education Quality Assurance
Information System
Developing and consolidatir g a iigher education quality assurance information system
for the systematic gathering, processing and dissemination of reliable data regarding
higher education quality asst ranc as well as graduates' performance in the labor market,
through:
(a) 
the developr ient nd consolidation of an observatory of the accreditation
process of the Borrower's higher education (Acredita Perii), responsible
for the organization and dissemination of information on standards,
criteria, indicatois, EEFAs, as well as the evaluation and accreditation
procedures ly de ree programs and HEIs.
-5-
(b) 
the establishment 
f an observatory of higher education graduates
(Futuro Proj?sio al), 
responsible 
for 
systematically 
collecting,
processing 
arid 
Aisseminating 
statistical 
information 
about 
the
performance of hij;her education graduates in the labor market, and
prcviding informati:)n regarding employability and salaries of graduates
from different )rog ams and HEls.
(c) 
the carrying oL t of several studies aiming at a better understanding of the
Borrower's hiEher (ducation, including inter alia: (i) the development of
a methodolog: andt initial data collection to carry out an evaluation
regarding the 1:ng erm effects of the introduction of a quality assurance
system; (ii) in dept i socio-cultural assessment, in the framework of the
IPPF; (iii) astessinig the role of information in the choice of post-
secondary edlicatin; and (iv) the effect of accreditation in the
Borrower's hii:her iducation system.
Part 3: Fund for Quality Enhaicetr ent
Promoting the improvement of th - quality and relevance of academic programs and
HEls, through the establishment of the FEC and its two windows of financing, including
the carrying out of the followir g ac ivities:
(a) 
ex:ernal evaluation of IEESs (institution-wide and for technical programs
in health and educe tion) by the EEFA of their choice, after completion of
self-evaluatior.
(b) 
implementation of Improvement Plans for both IEESs and universities
(ircluding prcgran s within HEls), based on the results of the self and
external evalu ition
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Inpleiental ionrranements
A. 
Institutional Arrangeme its.
1. 
The Borrower, through C( SUSINEACE, shall:
(a) 
implement 
thc 
Project 
through 
an 
independent 
unit 
within
COSUSINEACE 
(the 
UCP), 
responsible 
for 
the 
management,
coordination, 
sul ervision, monitoring and evaluation (except the
evaluations roferr d to in Section I.A.3 of this Schedule), and fiduciary
it anagement :f th . Project;
(b) 
ensure that not lat.r than 3 months after the Effective Date the UCP has a
structure, respons bilities, the necessary budget and key staff assigned
wA 
ith functior s, e> perience, responsibilities and qualifications acceptable
to the Bank, is de cribed in the Operational Manual; and
(c) 
for the purpo ies o Part 3 of the Project:
(i) 
establish ind maintain a committee (the CTF) responsible, inter
alia, for t ie selection and approval of Improvement Plans under
Part 3 c f the Project, and composed by seven members,
incluling a representative from MEF, as described in the
Oper 3tior El Manual, ; and
(ii) 
designate within the UCP, a technical secretariat (the STF)
respc,nsib e, inter alia, for: (A) carrying out of pre-evaluation
processes for Improvement Plan proposals: (B) supporting HEls
in the 
hel boration of final Improvement Plans; (C) supporting
HEls on the monitoring and implementation of Improvement
Plan:, as lescribed in the Operational Manual.
2. 
Not later than 90 day, after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through
COSUSINEACE-UCP, 
;hall establish, and thereafter maintain during the
implementation of the Project, a steering committee (CDP) composed by
representatives from CO!;USINEACE (CONEAU and CONEACES), MINEDU
and MEF, with function. and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, included,
inter ala, the res pons bility of providing general Project oversight and
coordination, as set iorth in the Operational Manual.
-7-
3. 
Not later than nine rionth[s after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through
COSUSIN EACE-UCP, sh;alI create an external advisory council (the CAE)
composed by a group (if si recognized international and local authorities in their
respective fields, witi fur otions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank,
including the carrying out if yearly evaluations of the Project, as well as a mid-
term and a final evaluati n of Project implementation, as described in the
Operational Manual.
B. 
Anti-Corraption
The Borrower, througi COSUSINEACE-UCP, shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance w th the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards and Operatiot al Manual
The Borrower throug : COSUSINEACE-UCP, shall carry out the Project in
accordance with:
(a) 
The IPPF; and
(b) 
the Operational 
4anual, which shall include the rules, methods,
guidelines, stf ndar I documents and procedures for the carrying out of
thi relevant P irts (if the Project, including the following: (i) the detailed
description 
of Project 
activities 
and 
the 
detailed 
institutional
arrangements of t ie Project, including the composition and terms of
reference of both ( e CDP and the CAE; (ii) the criteria and methods for
the selection of HIls and IEESs under the Project; (iii) detailed criteria
for selecting, valt ating and ranking Improvement Plans under Part 3(b)
of the Project; (i v) the Project administrative, accounting, auditing,
reporting, financi.l (including cash flow aspects in relation thereto),
procurement and (isbursement procedures; (v) the monitoring indicators
fcr the Projec:; (vi a list of authorized EEFAs; (vii) the IPPF; and (viii) a
sL.mmary of tie lo :al provisions governing worker health and safety, and
disposal of materi ls in the carrying out of Minor Works under Part 3(b)
of the Project, In I he event that any provision of the Operational Manual
shall conflict wit] this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.
Section II. 
Project Mon tori ig Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through COSUCINEACE-UCP shall monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Pro ect und prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.( 8 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
-8-
indicators set forth in the Dperational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover
the period of one cal(ndat semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than 30 days after the end )f the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, I 3nancial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through COSUCINEACE-UCP, 
shall maintain a financial
management system in a cordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation o1 thc provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through COSUCINEACE UCP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than 30 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project coi ering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The 
Borrower, through COSUCINEACE-UCP 
shall have the Financial
Statements of the Pr )ject audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09 (b) of the General Ci onditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statemen,s for each ,uch )eriod shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end )f su >h period.
Section HI. 
P rocuremen t
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, 'Works anc Nc n-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services rmquir:d for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be proc ured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
, ll consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of th. pr ceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set fort or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with he p -ovisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The ca.pitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement me athods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corr .sponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guide ines. or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case m ty be.
-9-
B. 
Particular Methods of Pro :urement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competilive lIidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the bas: s of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of P -ocu -ement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following me hods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procureme it of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specifi -d it the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bi Iding
(b) Shoppi_g
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Proc urement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-basod So lection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' scrvic,.s shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Co!t-ba ed Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Piocui ement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Qual ty and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Methoc
(a) Quality-Based Selectiot
(b) Selection based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Single-source Sele,;tion of consulting firms
(d) Least Cost Selection
(e) Selecti3n under Fi:.ed E udget
(f) Procedures set forih in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single-Source Prccedu res for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
-10-
D. 
Review by the Bank of P ocurement Decisions
The Procurement Plati sha I set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Special Provisions
1 .
In addition and withc ut li nitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this Section or the Pr )curement Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern the procurement of goods, works and non consulting services with
National Competitive Bidt ling ("NCB") procedures:
(a) 
Foreign bidcers ,hall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition o-fparticipation in the selection process.
(b) 
No reference: value shall be required for publication in the bidding
documents oi uset for the purpose of bid evaluation.
(c) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever
a,propriate, shal take into account factors that can be quantified
objectively, and tie procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed
in the invitat on t< bid.
(d) 
Foreign biders :hall be allowed to submit a bid under NCB without
restriction ar d sh il not be subject to any unjustified requirement which
will affect their a ility to bid such as, but not limited to, the requirement
to authentica Le (l( galizar) their bidding documents or any documentation
related to su -h b dding documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the
Ministry of Forei rn Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a prerequisite
for bidding.
(e) 
The Borrower, th rough the COSUCINEACE-UCP, shall use standard
bidding documer ts and standard evaluation formats, all satisfactory to
tie Bank.
2. 
In addition and with ut I mitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this Section or he Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern a l employmcnt o 'consultants:
(a) 
Foreign con sulta its shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of parti -ipation in the selection process.
(b) 
Foreign con sulta its shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any
documentati:)n r lated to their participation in the selection process with
-11-
Peruvian Consulatt s, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian
authorities, as L cor dition of participation in said selection process.
(c) 
The Borrowe-, tl rough COSUCINEACE-UCP, 
shall use standard
rec uests for pr)pos ds and standard evaluation formats, all satisfactory to
the Bank.
(d) 
Foreign consu tants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to
pay fees to the Pen vian Consultants' Association that are different from
those required for I eruvian consultants.
(e) 
No consultant hire. for the Project, at the time he or she is carrying out
his or her contract ial obligations as consultant, may hold civil service
ofice or any other >osition in any agency of the Borrower, nor shall such
coisultant have ar y right to re-entry into any such office or position
upon the conclusioi of his or her consulting services.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal cf Loin Proceeds
A. 
General
1 
The Borrower may w itbdr nw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II 
f the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instruction. as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "Work Bai k Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from timi: to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to sue instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in pa agra ph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specif es the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the iroce eds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan -o ea-:h Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expeiditures in each Category.
-12-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Categort 
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(1) Goods, Minor Works, 
3,796,891 
100% of Eligible
non-consulting se:vices, 
Expenditures
consultants' services,
Training and Operational
Costs for Part 1 of the
Project
(2) Goods, Minor Works, 
2,485,572 
100% of Eligible
non-consulting services, 
Expenditures
consultants' services,
Training and Ope :ational
Costs for Part 2 cf the
Project
(3) Goods, Minor Works, 
18,717,537 
100% of Eligible
non-consulting services, 
Expenditures
consultants' services,
Training and Operational
Costs for Part 3 of the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
25,000,000
For the purposes of this Sectin:
(a) 
the term "Operating Cosi 3" means the reasonable incremental operational costs
(which would not have been incurred absent the Project), related to Project
technical and admin stral ive management monitoring and supervision required
under the Project, inc ludii g inter alia, office equipment and supplies, travel costs
(including accommodatio is, transportation costs and per diem), printing services,
communication costs, utilities, operation and maintenance of office equipment
and facilities, and Ic gisti -s services;
(b) 
the term "Training" mea is expenditures (other than those for consultants' and
non-consaltant 
sen ices 
incurred 
by 
COSUSINEACE 
(CONEAU 
and
CONEACES), and HEI; in connection with the carrying out of training,
seminars, and woikshc ps, including the 
reasonable 
travel costs (e.g.
accommodations, transportation costs and per diem, inter alias) of trainees and
trainers (if applicable), -atering, rental of training facilities and equipment,
logistics and printing sen ices, as well as training materials and equipment under
the Project; and
-13-
(c) 
the term "Minor Works" m:ans expenditures incurred by HEls in connection
with the refurbishment of ex sting infrastructure (i.e. installation of equipment in
existing buildings, covering :r painting of surfaces less than 50 m2) under Part
3(b) of the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Condition ;; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the prc visi ns of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan ILcco Mt until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee;
(b) 
for payments nade prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000
equivalent may be r iade for payments made prior to this date but on or
after September 7, 2012, for Eligible Expenditures; or
(c) 
for payments t nder Category (3), unless: (i) the CTh and STF units
referred to in Soctiolt I.A. 1 (c) of this Agreement are in place and staffed
in a manner acoepta :le to Bank; and (ii) the Project information system
referred to in Sec:ion IV.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement is
implemented in a m. nner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is April 1, 2018.
C. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower, through COSUSIN 'ACE-UCP shall design and implement a Project
information system, acceptable to t ie Bank, for the purposes of recording, controlling,
reporting and moritoring Project transactions and issuance of the financial reports
required for the Project.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
A mortization Schedule
The Borrower sh.1l repay the prin -ipal amount of the Loan in full on August 15, 2030.
-15-
APPENDIX
S;ection I. Definitious
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
GuidelineE" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corrup ion in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated Oc:ober 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"CAE" means Comiti Ases gr Externo, the committee of international and
national experts referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreeme nt.
4. 
"CDP" means Comiti Dire.-tivo del Proyecto, the committee referred to in
Section I.A.2 of Schedul. 2 t< the Loan Agreement.
5. 
"CONEACES" means Cinse o de Evaluaci6n, Acreditaci6n y Certificaci6n de la
Calidad de lI Educaci6n Sulerior No Universitaria, the Borrower's council for
the evaluation, accreditation and certification of the quality of non-university
higher education institu-:ions established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No.
28740 dated December ., 20)5 and published on May 23, 2006, as said law has
been amended to the dato of t is Agreement.
6. 
"CONEAU" means Corsejo de Evaluaci6n, Acreditaci6n y Certificacion de la
Calidad de la Educaci Superior Universitaria, the Borrower's council for the
evaluation, accreditation andi certification of the quality of university higher
education institutions, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 28740
dated December 1, 20:i an( published on May 23, 2006, as said law has been
amended to i:he date of tiis A greement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" me is the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBl) 
L( ans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated Janua y 2C 11.
8. 
"COSUSIN1ACE" 
mcans 
Consejo Superior del Sistema Nacional de
Evaluaci6n, Acreditac,6n v Certiftcaci6n de la Calidad Educativa, the
Borrower's higher council of the national system for evaluation, accreditation
and certification of the qw lity of education, an specialized technical agency
ascribed to the Borrow.-r's vinistry of Education with financial, technical and
administrative autonomy, a id established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No.
28740 datec December 1, 21105 and published on May 23, 2006 as said law has
been amended to the da e of :his Agreement.
-16-
9. 
"CTF" means Com.si6n Ticnica del Fondo, the FEC's Fund Technical
Commission referred to in Section I.A. 1(c) (i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
10. 
"EEFA" means Entidad Tvaluadora con Fines de Acreditaci6n, an evaluation
entity for accreditat on )roperly authorized by CONEAU or CONEACES
pursuant to the Borrower'; Supreme Decree No.018-2007-ED published on July
10, 2007.
11. 
"FEC" Fondo de Estimul de la Calidad, the fund for the improvement of the
quality and relevance of a ademic programs under in Part 3 of the Project.
12. 
"General Conditions" m ans the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development Genera' Cor ditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
13. 
"HEI" means a Higier klucation Institution participating in the Project and
located in the territori of 1 he Borrower, including universities and IEES, selected
following the criteria set f >rth in the Operational Manual
14. 
"IEES" means Institetos y Escuelas de Educaci6n Superior, higher education
institutes and schoo .s (cxcept universities), participating in the Project and
located ir the territory of the Borrower, selected following the criteria set forth
in the Operational Maual
15. 
"Improvement Plan" mea is either a program improvement plan (Plan de Mejora
de Carreras) or a ins tituti anal improvement plan (Plan de Mejora Institucional),
prepared by a HEI a id b. tsed on the results of the external evaluations, eligible
for financing under Fart 3(b) of the Project, following the procedures set forth in
the Oper,tional Manual.
16. 
"Indigenous Peoples' 
P1 inning Framework or IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework dated Septenber 21, 2012, acceptable to the Bank, published and
available to the public or the website www.coneau.gob.pe, and included in the
Operational Manual detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on
indigenous peoples as a rosult of any activity carried out under the Project and to
ensure that they benefit fa)m the Project, including procedures for the preparation
and implementation of th; pertinent indigenous peoples development plans.
17. 
"MEF" means Ministeric de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of
Economy and Finance.
18. 
"MINEDU" means Mi isterio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of
Education.
-17-
19. 
"Operational Manual" mee ns the Borrower's manual satisfactory to the Bank
dated Octcber 5, 2012, reFerred to in Section I.C (b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such manua' may be amended from time to time with the Bank's
prior approval, and such tex m includes any schedules to the Operational Manual,
including the IPPF.
20. 
"Procurem,ent Guidelir es" aeans the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Scrvic s under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" da:ed January 2011.
21. 
"Procurement Plan" rean; the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated October 5, 2012 an I referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to t me i i accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
22. 
"STF" means Secre aria Ticnica del Fondo, the FEC's Fund Technical
Secretariat referred to n Se ztion I.A.1(c) (ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"UCP" means Unid6d C)ordinadora del Proyecto, the Borrower's Project
Coordination Unit wit iin ( OSUSINEACE referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) of this
Agreemen:.
-18-
