OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8290-TL
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Road Climate Resilience Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
(c 
,2013
LOAN NUMBER 8290-TL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
ts kat&r 
, 2013, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to
this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I-- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its Minister of Finance
or its Vice-Minister of Finance.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be
changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such
amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of
the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through CAFI and MPW in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that the
Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under it (other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is
its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Paldcio do Governo
Edificio 5, 10 Andar
Dili, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
Facsimile:
+670-332-13-39
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR - LESTE
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
kMI A 
p rs
Title: -
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
.By
Authorized Representative
Name: F-1*40aJ P. TV 
E -
Title: A6 
AJ T-91 
£',Rae? p, aeA/c
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to deliver sustainable climate resilient road infrastructure
on the Dili-Ainaro Road Corridor.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: 
Development of Climate Resilient Road Infrastructure
A. 
Carrying out of civil works to reduce the impact of volume' and intensity of
rainfall on road infrastructure, including: (a) construction or reinforcement of
slope stabilization structures; b) improvement of drainage structures; and (c)
upgrading of the Dili-Ainaro Road Corridor.
B. 
Design and supervision of activities in Part L.A. of the Project.
Part 2: 
Climate Responsive Maintenance and Emergency Planning and Response
Systems
A. 
Design of emergency planning and response systems.
B. 
Routine and emergency maintenance on the Dili-Ainaro Road Corridor.
Part 3: 
Project Support and Training
Strengthening the implementation capacity of the PMU to support MPW with the Project
execution, and carrying out of a training program for MPW staff, local contractors and
community-based contractors for assisting in the implementation of Parts 1 and 2 of the
Project, as well as the hiring of an independent monitor for supervision of the
implementation of the Resettlement Framework and any Resettlement Action Plans.
Part 4: 
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Design
Carrying out feasibility studies and detailed design of selected road segments linked to
the Dili-Ainaro Road Corridor.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
The Borrower shall vest in CAFI the execution and overall oversight of the Project and in
MPW the implementation and day-to-day management of the Project. To that end, the
Borrower shall ensure that MPW, under the authority of CAFI:
1. 
through the PMU: (a) carries out the day-to-day implementation of the
Project; (b) examines and certifies work conducted by all consultants and
contractors financed under the proceeds of -the Loan, and submits
withdrawal applications with all necessary supporting documentation to
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance; and (c) is in charge of effecting and
monitoring compliance with the Environmental Management Plan, the
Resettlement Framework and any Resettlement Action Plans;
2. 
maintains within its structure, throughout the period of implementation
of the Project: (a) the PMU, headed by a Project manager and staffed
with key professionals, including, inter alia, a chief technical advisor,
road maintenance advisor, road maintenance engineer, and financial
administrator, as well as new staff consisting of a part-time international
procurement advisor, a local procurement and financial management
officer, and a Project coordinator, all such new staff to be competitively
selected and appointed, and with experience, qualifications, functions,
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, said PMU to be
responsible for supporting MPW's day-to-day implementation of the
Project, including procurement and financial management; and (b) its
directorate in charge of roads, bridges, and flood control, responsible for
assisting in the implementation of the Project; and
3. 
the Borrower shall maintain 
its National Development Agency,
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, to oversee and
monitor all aspects of the Project implementation and advise the
Borrower of any issues or concerns affecting the Project implementation,
and propose and facilitate the implementation of any necessary or
desirable remedial action.
B. 
Project Operational Manual.
The Borrower shall ensure that the MPW maintains the revised Project Operational
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, consisting in various schedules setting forth rules,
methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of the
Project, including the following:
-7-
(i) 
the detailed description of the implementation activities under Parts 1, 2,
3 and 4 of the Project, their sequencing and the respective timetable and
benchmarks in relation thereto;
(ii) 
the 
administrative, 
accounting, 
auditing, 
reporting, 
financial
management, procurement and disbursement procedures, including all
pertinent standard documents and model contracts in relation thereto,
including Standard Bidding Documents for the procurement methods set
forth in the Procurement Plan and the final form of the interim unaudited
financial reports and Financial Statements for the Project and the terms
of reference for the financial audits of the Project;
(iii) 
the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement Framework;
and
(iv) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project including the
result framework (including the performance indicators) and all
environmental, economic and social aspects in relation thereto.
C. 
Anti-Corruption.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental
Management Plan and the Resettlement Framework, and any Resettlement Action Plans.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, any provision of the
Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Framework, or any Resettlement
Action Plan.
3. 
Whenever required pursuant to the terms of the Resettlement Framework, the Borrower
shall, for the purposes of the Project, and prior to the implementation of any civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing, proceed
to have a Resettlement Action Plan:
(a) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
except as otherwise agreed with the Bank in writing, submitted to the Bank for its
review and approval; and
(c) 
thereafter, adopted and locally disclosed, as well as retain the services of a
qualified independent monitor acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, for supervision of the implementation of the Resettlement
Framework and the relevant Resettlement Action Plans.
-8-
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each contract for civil works required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan includes the obligation of the relevant
contractor to implement the Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement
Framework, and any Resettlement Action Plans.
5. 
(a) The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to avoid or minimize to the extent
possible any involuntary relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, assets, or access to
assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently, at
or near the Dili-Ainaro Road Corridor, and (b) in the event that Project activities
nevertheless give rise to Affected Persons at or near the Dili-Ainaro Road Corridor, then
prior to the commencement of any such activities, prepare, and cause to be prepared, a
Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the Resettlement Framework, and thereafter implement said
Resettlement Action Plan as approved by the Bank.
6. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II.A of this Schedule 2, the Borrower shall
take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to the
Bank, as part of the Project Reports, information on the status of compliance with the
Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Framework, and any Resettlement
Action Plans, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
7. 
The Borrower shall finance exclusively out of its own resources all land acquisition
required for the purposes of carrying out works under the Project, and provide, promptly
as needed, the resources needed for this purpose.
8. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of the Environmental
Management Plan, the Resettlement Framework, and any Resettlement Action Plan, and
those of this Agreement, this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Additional Implementation Arrangements.
The Borrower shall ensure that Project supervision activities are carried out by an
independent design and supervision consultant acceptable to the Bank, selected under the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2, and under
terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the Project Operational
-9-
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections 11 and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
- 10-
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting;
(d) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank;
and (e) Performance Based Procurement.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection;
(d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms; (f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures
for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category:
- 11 -
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works under Parts I and 2 
13,262,500 
40%
of the Project
(2) Goods, consultants' 
1,000,000 
100%
services, non-consulting
services, Incremental
Operating Costs and Training
for Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the
Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
37,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(4) 
Interest 
Rate 
Cap 
or 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this
Agreement
(5) Interest 
on 
the 
Loan 
700,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
accrued on or before one day 
Section 
2.04 
of 
this
prior to the date of the last 
Agreement in accordance with
payment date 
immediately 
Section 2.07 (c) of the General
preceding the Closing Date 
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
15,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made
twelve months prior to this date, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
- 12 -
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding Procedures
The following provisions shall apply in respect of contracts for goods and works financed under
the Project and procured according to National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures:
1. Eligibility
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder should be declared ineligible for contracts
financed by the Bank for reasons other than the ones provided by Section I of the Guidelines.
2. 
Bidders Participation
No eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder or origin of goods shall apply; therefore,
foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB without restriction.
No limitations shall be imposed on any bidder as to the number of tenders in which he may
participate during a given period of time.
Prior registration, obtaining a license or an agreement shall not be a requirement for any bidder to
participate in bidding procedures.
3. 
Advertising, Time for Bid Preparation
Potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids which should not be less than
thirty (30) days, except for commodities and small goods contracts.
4. 
Standard Bidding Documents
Standard Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Bank, should be used.
5. 
Bid Security
Bid security shall not be required for all procurement and shall be capped to a reasonable
percentage of the amount of the contract in order not to hinder competition; when required, it
shall be in the form of a bank guarantee from a reputable bank.
6. 
Qualification Criteria and Evaluation Criteria
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and all criteria so
specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified.
The evaluation of the bidder's qualifications should be conducted separately from the technical
and commercial evaluation of the bid.
- 13 -
7. 
Bid Opening, Evaluation and Award of Contract
Bids shall be opened immediately after the stipulated deadline for submission of bids. Bids
received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to the bidders
unopened.
(a) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that shall be
clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms for
evaluation criteria other than price; Merit points shall not be used in bid
evaluation.
(b) 
A contract shall be awarded to the technically responsive bid that offers the
lowest evaluated price and no negotiations shall be permitted.
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor,
non-substantial deviations.
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's
estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior concurrence.
8. 
Preferences
No domestic preference shall be given for domestic bidders and for domestically manufactured
goods.
9. 
Reiection of All Bids and Re-bidding
All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
10. Publication of the Award of Contract
Publication of the contract award should include: (a) name of each bidder who submitted a bid;
(b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price of each bid; (d) name of
bidders whose bids were rejected; and (e) name of the winning bidder; upon request, the
Borrower shall inform unsuccessful bidders of the reasons of their rejection.
11. Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
The Borrower shall establish an effective and independent protest mechanism allowing bidders to
protest and to have their protests handled in a timely manner.
12. Fraud and Corruption
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated period, to
be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time determines that the firm or
individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or
obstructive practices in competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by the Bank.
-14-
13. Right to Inspect/Audit
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the Financing shall include a
provision requiring bidders, suppliers and contractors to permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect
their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract and to
have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and
material violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such provision may amount to
obstructive practice.
- 15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September15
Beginning March 15, 2022 through September
15, 2040 
2.56%
and including March 15, 2041 
2.72%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 16-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such person; and "Affected Persons" means, collectively, all such Affected
Persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"CAFI" means Conselho de Administraqido do Fundo das Infra-Estruturas, the
Borrower's Administrative Council of the Infrastructure Fund, as established and
operating under the Borrower's Decree-Law No 8/201I dated March 14, 2011.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and 
Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
6. 
"Dili-Ainaro Road Corridor" means one of the Borrower's main artery and most vital
land transport link in the country.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, satisfactory to the Bank, developed
by the Borrower for the Project and publicly disclosed on March 17, 2011 on the website
www.mof.gov.tl and available to the public for consultation at the premises of MPW,
which sets out, inter alia: (i) the specific actions, measures and policies designed to
maximize the benefits of the Project, as well as eliminate, offset or mitigate any adverse
environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, during its design,
construction and operation phases, (ii) approximate location, timeframe and mitigation
costs, (iii) reference to the relevant laws, regulations, and contract documents, (iv)
responsibility for implementation and supervision, and (v) a field monitoring checklist to
be used by the supervising engineers, as said plan may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such plan.
8. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Association
for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement; as such agreement may be amended
from time to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
- 18-
9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the 
"International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012 , with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means in respect of Category 2 in the table of Section IV.
A. 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, incremental expenses incurred by the MPW on
account of the Project implementation support and management and reasonably related
thereto, including office rental, communications, utilities, stationary, domestic travel
costs and per diem, maintenance of vehicles and equipment funded by the proceeds of the
Loan, but excluding salaries, fees and honoraria of the Borrowers' civil servants.
1. 
"Original Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement for a twelve million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,700,000) Project between the
Borrower and the Association, dated July 6, 2011, as amended to the date of this
Agreement (Grant No H683-TP).
12. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Financing Agreement.
13. 
"MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works or any successor thereto.
14. 
"National Development Agency" means the Borrower's national agency, established
through decree No. 11 adopted in 2011, to monitor and assess implementation of all large
national infrastructure projects, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June
24, 2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit maintained in the MPW pursuant to Section
I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
18. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the revised manual to be prepared by the Borrower
pursuant to Section .B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth procedures for
implementation of the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes
to such manual.
19. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement plan, to be prepared by the Borrower in
accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Framework,
satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth the principles and procedures governing the
acquisition of land and related assets, and the compensation, resettlement, and
rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to
such plan.
- 19-
20. 
"Resettlement Framework" means the framework prepared by the Borrower for the
Project, satisfactory to the Bank, and publicly disclosed on March 17, 2011 on the
website www.mof.gov.tl and available to the public for consultation at the premises of
MPW, 
which sets out (i) mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional
measures, including capacity building through training, to carry out the acquisition of
land and related assets under the Project, (ii) 
compensation, resettlement, and
rehabilitation of Affected Persons, and (iii) the preparation of Resettlement Action Plans
during the implementation of the Project, as said framework may be revised from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such framework.
21. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means collectively, the Environmental Management Plan, the
Resettlement Framework, and any or all Resettlement Action Plans.
22. 
"Training" means in respect of Category 2 in the table of Section IV. A. 2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by
trainers and trainees in connection with their training and by training facilitators, course
fees, workshops and travel study tours, training facility rentals, and training material
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise covered
under consultant and non-consultant services.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
The definition of the term "Conversion Date" in paragraph 20 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions is modified to read:
"'Conversion Date' means, for a Conversion, the Execution Date or such other date as the
Bank shall determine on which the Conversion enters into effect, as further specified in
the Conversion Guidelines; provided that if the Loan Agreement provides for automatic
Conversions into the Approved Currency upon withdrawal of amounts of the Loan, the
Conversion Date shall be the date of withdrawal from the Loan Account of the amount in
respect of which the Conversion has been requested."
