OFFCIAL
80CUMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8307-BR
Loan Agreement
(Enhancing Public Management for Service Delivery in Rio de Janeiro Development
Policy Loan)
(Programa de Melhoramento da Qualidade e IntegraVdo dos Transportes de Massa
Urbanos - PROMIT)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
Dated 
,ce4 
3 
201 3
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
ZedayA 
3 
2013, 
entered 
into 
between
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which
are described in Section L.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the Borrower's
maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii)
appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the Bank of
the proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in the Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program) into an account to be designated
by the Borrower, the Borrower's financial capacity will be strengthened by expanding its
fiscal space to finance further public investments in accordance with the Borrower's
budgetary laws.
The Bank and the Borrower therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million Dollars
($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Borrower's
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's Secretary of Finance.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%). The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior non-objection
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, 
request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
-2-
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on: (i) the Guarantor's macroeconomic
policy framework; (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure 
program, 
sustainable 
debt, 
and 
appropriate 
fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor, as referred to in the Whereas Clause
(A) of this Agreement; and (iii) the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower's
ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt
and/or fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or (ii) reversing the
objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program
including any action specified in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that an
action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower to reverse
any action or policy under the Program, including any action listed in Section I.A
-3-
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the
Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor's
macroeconomic policy framework.
(b) 
The Bank is satisfied with the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure 
program, 
sustainable 
debt 
and 
appropriate 
fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's
approval of the Loan which expire on May 21, 2015.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Paldcio Guanabara - Rua Pinheiro Machado s/n
Rio de Janeiro - RJ, 22 238-900
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-3773
With copies to:
Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda
Av. Presidente Vargas, 670 - 190 andar. Centro
Rio de Janeiro - RJ, 20 071-001
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-4513
-4-
Secretaria de Estado de Transporte
Av. Nossa Senhora de Copacabana, 493 - 110 andar. Copacabana.
Rio de Janeiro - RJ, 22 031-000
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-21) 2333-8603
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
Aaff 
a. Fgeg& ie 
91E 
L 
c 
as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
B y
Authorized Representative
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
By
Aut orized Represen ative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. Actions under the Program
A. Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:
1. 
Instituting policies for improved medium-term planning and monitoring of
public expenditures
(a) 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to adopt sound financial and debt
management policies and practices:
(i) 
The Borrower has adopted the legal framework to implement its
treasury's operational risk policy, which policy provides for, inter alia,
mandatory disclosure of related documents on the internet and the Borrower's
submission to yearly external audits of said policy, as evidenced by the
Borrower's Decree no 44.428 of October 11, 2013, published in the Official
Gazette on October 14, 2013.
(ii) 
The Borrower has established the legal basis for the use of sound
financial and debt management tools, such as budget and financial quotas,
minimum and average cash balance, and procedures for making payments to its
suppliers, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree no 44.429 of October 11, 2013,
published in the Official Gazette on October 14, 2013.
(b) 
The Borrower has taken the following action to strengthen the definition of the
budget resource envelope under a medium-term expenditure framework:
(i) 
The Borrower has adopted the following budget preparation practices to
improve its accountability and fiscal discipline including: (A) preparation,
publication and regular updating of detailed revenue estimates including
subsequent years estimates; and (B) issuance of an annual budget directive
setting appropriate sectorial budget ceilings which shall be consistent with the
medium term revenue forecasts and targets for public indebtedness, as evidenced
by the Borrower's Decree no 44.431 of October 11, 2013, published in the
Official Gazette on October 15, 2013.
(c) 
The Borrower has taken the following action to implement a framework to deal
with fiscal commitments originated from PPPs:
(i) 
The Borrower has adopted the following institutional practices to
improve its transparency and accountability: (A) regular publication of a
-6-
comprehensive estimate of fiscal commitments, including explicit and contingent
payments from effective and prospective PPP contracts, which estimates shall be
updated at least annually together with the annual budget law; and (B)
publication of all documents and analysis relating to PPP projects through a
specialized website, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree no 44.430 of October
11, 2013, published in the Official Gazette October 14, 2013.
2. 
Enhancing the accessibility, quality and affordability of urban mobility
services for the poor
(a) 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to foster modal and regional
integration in urban transport systems:
(i) 
The Borrower has: (A) adopted the Urban Transport Master Plan
(PDTU) as the policy framework for the planning and development of an
integrated transport system in the RJMR; and (B) established a formal
coordination mechanism to enable the Borrower, the academia, civil society
institutions 
and 
RJMR 
municipal 
governments 
to participate 
in 
the
implementation of the PDTU, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree no 44.433,
dated October 11, 2013, published in the Official Gazette on October 14, 2013.
(ii) The Borrower has taken a first step to initiate the implementation of a policy
to physically integrate municipal and state-managed mass transit systems in the
RJMR, as evidenced by the Memorandum of Understanding entered into between
the Borrower and Supervia on August 22, 2013 for the implementation of
multimodal integration projects.
(iii) 
The Borrower has adopted a new policy to promote non-motorized
transport (NMT) through which it will: (1) ensure that secured bicycle parking
will be available at all major transit stations in the RJMR; and (2) provide
technical assistance to RJMR municipalities in developing high quality NMT
access to major public transport stations, as evidenced by SETRANS's
Resolution no 1.114 dated October 10, 2013 and published in the Official Gazette
on October 14, 2013.
(b) 
The Borrower has taken the following action to enhance the performance and
transparency of inter-municipal bus services:
(i) 
The Borrower has adopted a policy to: (A) replace existing permission-
based route licenses for inter-municipal bus routes with competitively awarded
concessions; (B) institute a performance-based system for managing said
concessions; and (C) increase transparency in bus service performance for the
public, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree 44.432, dated October 11, 2013,
published in the Official Gazette on October 14, 2013.
-7-
(c) 
The Borrower has taken the following action to ensure the long-term
sustainability and effectiveness of the Borrower's urban transport subsidy and
affordability programs:
(i) 
The Borrower has adopted a technical evaluation platform for periodic
monitoring of the financial viability and cost-effectiveness of all transport
programs requiring ongoing subsidies in an effort to ensure their financial
sustainability, as evidenced by SETRANS's Resolution no 1.113 dated October
10, 2013 and published in the Official Gazette on October 14, 2013.
3. 
Increasing the availability of targeted social services to reduce gender-based
violence in the RJMR
(a) 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to implement the Maria da Penha
Law by leveraging transport infrastructure for improved delivery and targeting of
services:
(i) 
The Borrower has established the Sub-secretariat of Policies for Women
("SPM-RJ/SEASDH"), as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 44.076,
dated February 20, 2013 and published in the Official Gazette on February 21,
2013.
(ii) 
The Borrower has: (A) adopted a policy to promote gender equality in
the transport sector specifically focused on the women users of the transport
system operated by Supervia; and (B) committed to implement the "Programa
Supervia 
e Telef6rico 
Lilds", 
as evidenced 
by: (1) Joint Resolution
SEFAZ/SETRANS/SEASDH Nol67 dated October 14, 2013 and published in the
Official Gazette on October 15, 2013; and (2) the allocation of US$15 million
(equivalent) to the SPM-RJ/SEASDH in the 2014 Borrower's Budget Law
Proposal published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October 1, 2013.
Section H. Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
-8-
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
500,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied:
(a) with the adequacy of the Guarantor's macroeconomic policy framework and
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program;
and
(b) with the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate expenditure program,
sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is January 31, 2015. The Bank will grant an
extension of the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has
informed the Bank that it agrees with such an extension.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2024
through August 15, 2039 
3.125%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-10-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-11 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel
elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group
metals (except
-12-
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set
gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
3. 
"Maria da Penha Law" means the Guarantor's law No. 11.340, dated August 7,
2006, which establishes the legal framework governing domestic violence
prevention, including protection and support for women who are at risk of, or
victims of, violence.
4. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Didrio Oficial.
5. 
"PDTU" means Plano Diretor de Transportes Urbanos the Borrower's Urban
Transport Master Plan referred to in the Borrower's Decree no 44.433, dated
October 11, 2013, which is the guiding document for integrated planning and
management of investment policies for the public transport system in the RJMR.
6. 
"PPP" means public-private partnerships.
-13 -
7. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated October 17, 2013, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
8. 
"Programa Supervia e Telef6rico Lilds" means the Borrower's program referred
which aims to: (i) increase women's access to information and to social and legal
services as per the provisions of the Maria da Penha Law; (ii) provide selected
social and economic inclusion services to women users of the Supervia transport
systems, and (iii) promote permanent and temporary information dissemination
and campaign activities on anti-domestic and gender-based violence.
9. 
"RJMR" means the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region which includes the
following municipalities of the Borrower: (i) Rio de Janeiro; (ii) Belford Roxo;
(iii) Duque de Caxias; (iv) Guapimirim; (v) Itaboraf; (vi) Itaguai; (vii) Japeri;
(viii) Mangaratiba; (ix) Maricd; (x) Mag6; (xi) Mesquita; Nil6polis; (xii) Niter6i;
(xiii) Nova Iguaqu; (xiv) Paracambi; (xv) Queimados; (xvi) Sao Gongalo; (xvii)
Sao Joao de Meriti; (xviii) Serop6dica; and (xix) Tangud.
10. 
"SEASDH" means Secretaria de Assistencia Social e Direitos Humanos, the
Borrower's Secretariat of Social Assistance and Human Rights or its successor.
11. 
"SEFAZ" means Secretaria da Fazenda, the Borrower's Finance Secretariat or
its successor.
12. 
"SETRANS" means Secretaria de Transporte, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Transport or its successor.
13. 
"SPM-RJ/SEASDH" means Sub-Secretaria de Politicas para as Mulheres", the
Borrower's Sub-secretariat of Policies for Women or its successor.
14. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Supervia" means the operator of the Telef6rico (as hereinafter defined) and the
concessionaire of the suburban railway network in the RJMR (as herein defined)
which operates: (i) five main broad gauge electrified corridors (Deodoro, Japeri,
Santa Cruz, Leopoldina and Belford Roxo); (ii) three non-electrified in meter
gauge corridors (Vila Inhomirim, Guapimirim and Niter6i-Visconde de Itaborai);
and (iii) the Telef6rico.
-14-
16. 
"Telef6rico" means the aerial cable car line located in the municipality of Rio de
Janeiro(also known as the Telef6rico do Alem5o).
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
-15-
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
-16-
