OFFICIAL
90CUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 827-EG
Loan Agreement
(Helwan South Power Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
\)O, 
2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8270-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
()J)eVnO 
-
, 2013, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred eighty five million four hundred
thousand United States Dollars (US$585,400,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the Project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principle amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 82 of the Appendix of the General Conditions
that apply to this Loan) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September I in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of
handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect to the Loan
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause EEHC to carry out Part A of the Project, through UEEPC, and
cause GASCO to carry out Part B of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions, the EEHC Project Agreement and the GASCO
Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01 
The additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any
legislation, license or other legal instrument related to the establishment or operation of
EEHC, GASCO or UEEPC or to the implementation of their respective activities under
the Project has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of EEHC, GASCO or UEEPC to perform any of their
respective obligations under the relevant Project or Implementation Agreement. Any
suspension based on this Section shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise
to the suspension has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Borrower
that such right to make withdrawals has been restored.
4.02 
The deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-Financing Agreements (Co-Financing
Deadline 
referred 
to 
in 
Section 
7.02(h)(i) 
of the 
General 
Conditions) 
is
December 30, 2015, or such later date as the Bank may establish by notice to the
Borrower, provided, however, that the failure of said Agreements to become effective by
such date shall not be an event of suspension if the Borrower establishes the availability
of adequate funds for the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.02(h)(i)
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
This Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that all
necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.
5.02. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that the
Implementing Agreements have been entered into between the respective parties to each
such Agreement.
5.03. 
The Additional Legal Matters to be included in the Legal Opinion consist of the
following, namely, that the Implementing Agreements have been duly authorized by the
respective parties to each such Agreement and that each such Agreement is legally
binding upon the respective parties in accordance with the term of each relevant
Agreement.
5.04. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement, or such later date established by the Bank in accordance with Section
9.04 of the General Conditions.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Minister of Planning and International Cooperation of the Borrower and the
Assistant to the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of
the Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as the
Borrower's Representative.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of International Cooperation
8 Adly Street,
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
(202) 2391-2815
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
(202) 2391-5167
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at hi J(L( 
UIeJ 5c 
Ae., 
Avas 
of the day and year
first above written. 
'
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
.In 
a. 
ELIA
Title: 
)v 
Ae4 
A rL 40A4
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
t orized 
epresen ativt
Name: T 
A. 
-t ke 1
Title: 
R 
in/L 
_e_ 
_r__ 
a
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase power generation capacity in an efficient
manner within the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: The Helwan South Power Plant
Design, construction and commissioning of al950-MW supercritical steam technology power
plant at Helwan South, with wet cooling, fired by natural gas as the primary fuel and by heavy
fuel oil on a back-up basis, and consisting of: (a) three identical 650-MW generating units, each
comprised of a steam generator, a steam turbine, a condenser, an electricity generator, a process
and cooling water supply system, an air and flue gas system, a fuel supply system and auxiliary
systems; (b) a distributed control system and a switchyard with step-up transformers;
(c) provision of engineering and project management services; and (d) carrying out of programs
for mitigating the adverse environmental and social impacts resulting from the implementation of
Part A of the Project, and the resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the
implementation of Part A of the Project.
Part B: Gas Pipelines
Construction of two gas pipelines capable of supplying about 12.5 million cubic meters of gas per
day to the power plant to be constructed under Part A of the Project, including: (a) a gas pipeline
of about 93 kms in length to connect said power plant near the town of Atfeeh to the existing gas
pipeline network at the compressor station at Dashour; (b) a gas pipeline of about 65 kms in
length from the Abu Hommos compressor station to the El Nubaria compressor station to
strengthen the gas transmission network; (c) pipeline inspection and cleaning facilities; and
(d) carrying out of programs for mitigating the adverse environmental and social impacts
resulting from the implementation of Part B of the Project, and the resettlement and rehabilitation
of people affected by the implementation of part B of the Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Other Arrangements.
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan under Category (1) available to EEHC under a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and EEHC, under terms and conditions mutually
agreeable to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i) repayment of principal, and payment of interest, charges and premium in accordance
with Article II of this Agreement and Article III of the General Conditions; (ii) payment
of any other charges which may be required by the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange
risk to be borne by EEHC ("EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement").
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan under Category (2) available to GASCO under a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and GASCO, under terms and conditions mutually
agreeable to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i) repayment of principal, and payment of interest, charges and premium in accordance
with Article II of this Agreement and Article III of the General Conditions; (ii) payment
of any other charges which may be required by the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange
risk to be borne by GASCO ("GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement").
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
the GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Borrower and Bank may otherwise agree after consultation, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the GASCO
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of their provisions.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants dated
October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
5. 
The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures as may be necessary or
required in order to ensure adequate supply of fuel to UEEPC for the efficient operation
of the power plant constructed under Part A of the Project.
-8-
B. 
Safeguards.
1. 
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause each Project
Implementing Entity:
(a) 
to implement the EEHC/UEEPC RPF, the GASCO RPF and the Resettlement
Action Plans, as the case may be, in a manner acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower including ensuring that all land acquisition required for the purposes of
carrying out activities under the Project, and activities related to resettlement and
rehabilitation of persons (if an) under the Project in connection with such
activities shall be completed prior to commencing the carrying out of such
activities, and that a grievance redressal mechanism shall be established and
operational prior to such date; and
(b) 
to implement the EEHC/UEEPC ESIA, the EEHC/UEEPC ESIMP, the GASCO
ESIAs, the GASCO ESIMPs or the Site specific EMPs as the case may be, in a
manner acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, including ensuring that
remedial measures are taken during the implementation and operation of the
Project to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts, if any, to levels set
forth in the EEHC/UEEPC ESIA or the GASCO ESIAs.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and the
Borrower shall cause the PIU to furnish said Report to the Bank and the Borrower not
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to have the Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-9-
Section III. 
Procurement
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree after consultation, procurement of the
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the EEHC Project Agreement and the Schedule to
the GASCO Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may, through the Project Implementing Entities, withdraw the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this
Section, and such additional arrangements as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such arrangements), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth
in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amount of the
Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Withdrawal Table
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD)
(1) Goods for Part A of the 
503,800,000 
100% of Foreign
Project 
Expenditures
(2) Goods for Part B of the 
81,600,000 
100% of Foreign
Project 
Expenditures
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
585,400,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.2. The Closing Date is
June 30, 2019.
- 10-
SCHEDULE 3
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March land September 1
Beginning September 1 , 2020 
2.33%
Through March 1, 2041
2.14%
On September 1, 2041
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
- 11 -
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 12 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2. 
"Co-financier" means for purposes of paragraph 15 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, individually each of the following financing institutions: the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development; the Islamic Development Bank; the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development; and the Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries
Fund. "Co-financiers" mean collectively all such Co-financiers.
3. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of US$193,500,000 to be provided by the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development, an amount of US$450,000,000 to be provided by the
Islamic Development Bank, and an amount of US$213,800,000 to be provided by the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, and an amount of US$40,000,000 to be
provided by the Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund, all to assist in
financing the Project.
4. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means individually each agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and a Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. "Co-financing
Agreements" means collectively all such Co-financing Agreements.
5. 
"EEHC" means the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company established and operating
pursuant to Law No. 164 of 2000, or any successor or successors thereof.
6. 
"EEHC/UEEPC ESIA" means the environmental and social impact assessment of EEHC
and UEEPC for Part A of the Project, disclosed in the Bank InfoShop on May 29, 2013,
setting forth, inter alia, the assessment of the impacts resulting from the implementation
of the Project and the associated facilities in the areas of influence of the Project, the
principles, procedures and guidelines for mitigating said impacts, the preparation of a
mitigation plan, and monitoring, reporting, and institutional measures to be taken during
the implementation and operation of Part A of the Project, as such assessment may be
updated from time to time with the prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank.
7. 
"EEHC/UEEPC ESIMP" means the environmental and social impact management plan
prepared by EEHC and UEEPC for Part A of the Project as included in the
EEHC/UEEPC ESIA, setting forth, inter alia, the adverse impacts resulting from the
implementation of the Project, if any, and the associated facilities in the areas of
influence of the Project, the measures to be taken to address said impacts, and
monitoring, reporting, and institutional measures to be taken during the implementation
and operation of Part A of the Project, as such Plan may be updated from time to time
with the prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank.
- 13 -
8. 
"EEHC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and EEHC of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the EEHC Project Agreement.
9. 
"EEHC/UEEPC RPF" means the resettlement policy framework of EEHC and UEEPC
for Part A of the Project, disclosed in the Bank Infoshop on May 28, 2013, setting forth,
inter alia: (a) the rules, procedures and guidelines for the resettlement, rehabilitation,
livelihood improvement and payment of compensation to people affected by the
implementation of the Project, as the case may be including as a result of the acquisition
of land and other assets, or loss of access to land, other assets or income, whether
permanent or temporary, as well as monitoring, reporting, institutional and grievance
redressal measures to be taken; and (b) the procedures and arrangements for the
preparation of Resettlement Action Plans as may be required for each segment of
alignment and routing for the various activities that are finalized under the Project and the
extent of impact determined, all pursuant to said Framework, and includes all schedules
and annexes thereto, as such framework may be updated from time to time with the prior
written approval of the Borrower and the Bank.
10. 
"EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EEHC pursuant to the provisions of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
all schedules to the EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
11. 
"GASCO" means the Egyptian Natural Gas Company, established in March 1997
pursuant to Investment Law No. 230 of 1989 and amended by Law No. 8 of 1997, or any
successor or successors thereof.
12. 
"GASCO ESIAs" means the environmental and social impact assessments of GASCO for
the two gas pipelines to be constructed under Part B of the Project, disclosed in the Bank
InfoShop on May 24, 2013, setting forth, inter alia, the adverse impacts resulting from the
implementation of Part B of the Project and the associated facilities in the areas of
influence of the Project, the measures to be taken to address said impacts, including the
principles and guidelines for the preparation and implementation of Site-Specific EMPs
for each site that are selected for carrying out activities under the Project and the matters
to be addressed therein, and monitoring, reporting, and institutional measures to be taken
during the implementation and operation of Part B of the Project, as such assessments
may be updated from time to time with the prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank.
13. 
"GASCO ESIMPs" means the environmental and social impact management plans
prepared by GASCO for the two gas pipelines to be constructed under Part B of the
Project and included in the relevant GASCO ESIAs, setting forth, inter alia, the adverse
impacts, if any, resulting from the implementation of the Project and the associated
facilities in the areas of influence of the Project, the measures to be taken to address said
impacts, and monitoring, reporting, and institutional measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of Part B of the Project, as such Plans may be updated
from time to time with the prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank.
14. 
"GASCO Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and GASCO of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the GASCO Project Agreement.
-14-
15. 
"GASCO RPF" means the resettlement policy framework of GASCO for Part B of the
Project, disclosed in to Bank Infoshop on May 24, 2013, setting forth, inter alia: (a) the
rules, procedures and guidelines for the resettlement, rehabilitation, livelihood
improvement and payment of compensation to people affected by the implementation of
the Project, as the case may be including as a result of the acquisition of land and other
assets, and loss of access to land, other assets or income, whether permanent or
temporary, as well as monitoring, reporting, institutional and grievance redressal
measures to be taken; and (b) the procedures and arrangements for the preparation of
Resettlement Action Plans as may be required pursuant to said framework, and includes
all schedules and annexes thereto, as such framework may be updated from time to time
with the prior written approval of the Borrower and the Bank.
16. 
"GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and GASCO pursuant to the provisions of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes all schedules to the GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
17. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
18. 
"Implementation Agreement" means individually the EEHC Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the GASCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the UEEPC Agreement; and Implementation
Agreements means all these Agreements collectively.
19. 
"Legal Opinion" means the legal opinion provided by the Borrower for the process of
Section 9.02 of the General Conditions.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
21. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means either EEHC or GASCO. "Project Implementing
Entities" means both EEHC and GASCO.
22. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a site-specific resettlement action plan to be
prepared and adopted by a Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the EEHC/UEEPC
RPF or the GASCO RPF, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
containing, inter alia, a program of actions, measures and policies for the compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of persons affected by the implementation of the Project,
as the case may, be including as a result of the acquisition of land and other assets, and
loss of access to land, other assets or income, whether permanent or temporary, together
with adequate institutional, monitoring, reporting and grievance redressal arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular compliance with, its terms for
each site, as such Plan may be updated from time to time with the prior approval of the
Borrower and the Bank; and "Resettlement Action Plans" or "RAPs" mean more than one
such RAP.
23. 
"Site-Specific EMP" means a site-specific environmental management plan to be prepared
and adopted by GASCO pursuant to the GASCO ESIAs, satisfactory to the Bank, in
respect of works to be undertaken by GASCO under Part B of the Project defining details
- 15 -
of measures to manage potential environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset
adverse environmental impacts associated with the implementation of activities under
each phase of Part B of the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular
compliance with, its terms, as the same may be updated from time to time with the prior
written approval of the Borrower and the Bank; and "Site-specific EMPs" means more
than one such Site-specific EMP.
24. 
"UEEPC" means the Upper Egypt Electricity Production Company established and
operating pursuant to Law No. 159 of 1981, or any successor or successors thereof.
25. 
"UEEPC Agreement" means the Agreement to be entered into between EEHC and
UEEPC for purposes of implementing Part A of the Project pursuant to the provisions of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement and paragraph I of Section .B of the Schedule to the
EECH Project Agreement.
26. 
"Withdrawal Table" means the table of eligible expenditures in paragraph 2 of Section IV
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
