OFFICIAL
DOCUiMENTS!
LOAN NUMBER 8258-HR
Loan Agreement
(Second Science and Technology Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
C 
2 2 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
2/ 
22 
, 2013, between REPUBLIC OF
CROATIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Euro (EUR
20,000,000), ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I
to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread,
or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its MSES in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Katan6ideva 5
10000 Zagreb
Republic of Croatia
Telex: 
Facsimile:
862-21215 
(385-1) 4922-598
862-21833
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
3
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Zagreb, Croatia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
By
SAu 
rized Representative
Name: 
Ca\ k 
'LI Cr
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 4 4OV\C 00 4O 
IA
Title: Cu 
f 
Pu 
ge
4
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower to absorb EU Funds in
the research and innovation sector by capacitating selected public sector organizations,
and stimulating the demand for those funds from the business and scientific communities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Capacity Building for Absorption of EU Funds
1 .
Support to the Borrower, its MSES, UKF, BICRO and other selected public
sector organizations in the research and innovation sector to improve their capacity to
qualify for and manage EU Funds in the area of research and innovation through
Technical Assistance and Training including:
(a) for the development of strategic documents, such as a smart specialization
strategy, a research and innovation strategy for smart specialization, and a
research infrastructure roadmap;
(b) to strengthen the governance of research and innovation policies and
programs, including through a review of selected policies and programs and
development of new policies and programs, as required, and support for the
development of databases, technologies and competences;
(c) for the evaluation of the network of public research institutes, including the
preparation of strategic planning and financial management strategies and
preparation of performance-based contracts between MSES and public
research institutes; and
(d) for providing support for the accreditation process for EU Funds, including
adjustment of the relevant institutions' operational procedures to enable the
use of EU Funds, and improving capacity to implement research and
innovation policies and programs according to existing best practices.
2. 
Support to MSES, BICRO, UKF and other selected public sector organizations
in the research and innovation sector for the development of applications for
research and development grant schemes and infrastructure projects for EU
Funds, including through the following activities:
(a) Technical assistance to MSES, BICRO and UKF for the preparation of new
or adjusted research and development grant scheme project applications for
EU Funds; and
(b) Technical assistance and Training for the preparation of at least three project
applications for the infrastructure project pipeline for EU funds (including
5
feasibility studies, cost-benefit analysis and technical documentation), as
selected with the agreement of the Bank.
3. 
Support to MSES, including BICRO and UKF, for project management and
implementation, including through financing of Operating Costs, Training and
audit for the Project.
Part B: Research and Innovation Programs
I. 
Support for research and innovation programs through the provision of Sub-
financing, through BICRO, to Beneficiaries for Sub-projects in accordance with the
Operational Procedures, including: (i) to private firms and researchers for implementation of
Program II; (ii) to eligible enterprises for implementation of Program III; and (iii) to eligible
small and medium enterprises and public research organizations and universities for
implementation of Program 1.
2. 
Support for:
(a) strengthening 
human 
resources, 
research 
excellence 
and 
research
commercialization through the provision of Sub-financing, through UKF, to
Beneficiaries for Sub-projects in accordance with the Operational Procedures
including: (i) for collaborative research activities with the Croatian diaspora and
leading international scientific institutions under the Research Cooperability
Program; (ii) for young scientists for implementation of the Young Researchers
and Professionals Program; and (iii) for mobility of scientists in order to enhance
the flow of knowledge and skills in the Republic of Croatia under the
Connectivity Program; and
(b) strengthening innovation activities through the provision of Sub-financing,
through MSES, to Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance with the
Operational Procedures, including for investments and activities in research
commercialization and intellectual property protection of research results under
the Technology Transfer Office Support Program.
6
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through its MSES, shall:
(a) 
Maintain overall responsibility and oversight of the Project and shall be
responsible for strategic guidance on Project implementation.
(b) 
Carry out the Project through its MSES and shall ensure that the Project
is implemented through its PIU in accordance with the PIP, POM and the
Operational Procedures and shall not amend, suspend, waive or abrogate the
provisions of the PIP, POM or any of the Operational Procedures without prior
agreement of the Bank.
(c) 
Maintain the PIU within MSES throughout the duration of the Project, in
a form and with functions, staffing, terms of reference, qualifications, scope of
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and other adequate resources, and shall
cause the PIU to be responsible for management of the Project activities,
procurement, disbursement, financial management, monitoring, reporting and
coordination.
(d) 
Maintain each of (a) the Steering Committee; and (b) the Working
Group, throughout the duration of the Project, each with a structure and in a form
and with functions, staffing, terms of reference, qualifications, scope of
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and other adequate resources, and shall
cause the Steering Committee to be responsible for general Project strategic
guidance and shall cause the Working Group to be responsible for overall
coordination.
(e) 
Maintain BICRO and UKF under the authority of MSES, with a structure
and in a form and with functions, staffing, terms of reference, qualifications,
scope of responsibilities and other adequate resources satisfactory to the Bank,
and shall carry out Sub-financing through (i) BICRO for Sub-financing under
Part B.1 of the Project, (ii) UKF for Sub-financing under Part B. 2(a) of the
Project; and (iii) MSES under Part B.2(b) of the Project.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-financing
7
1. The 
Borrower, through 
MSES, BICRO or UKF, 
as 
applicable, 
shall
provide Sub-financing to Beneficiaries. Each Beneficiary shall have established,
to the satisfaction of MSES, BICRO or UKF, as appropriate, on the basis of the
relevant Operational Procedures, 
that it has a sound structure and the
organization, management, business plan, staff and other resources required for
the efficient carrying out of the Sub-project.
2. The Borrower, through MSES, BICRO or UKF, as applicable, shall select Sub-
projects for financing from the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
criteria and procedures set forth in the respective Operational Procedures.
3. 
Sub-financing made by the Borrower through the MSES, BICRO or UKF, as
applicable, may be in a form of a loan, a grant, an equity investment and any
other type of financing, as shall be agreed with the Bank and as specified in the
respective Operational Procedures, and shall be provided and implemented in
accordance with the terms of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
4. The Borrower, through MSES, BICRO and UKF, as applicable, shall maintain
pre-screening, 
evaluation 
and 
supervision 
procedures 
for 
Sub-projects,
acceptable to the Bank.
5. The Borrower, through MSES, BICRO or UKF, as applicable, shall make each
Sub-financing under a Sub-financing Agreement with the respective Beneficiary
on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the
following:
(i) 
The Borrower, through MSES, BICRO or UKF, as applicable, shall
obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank,
including the right to:
(1) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds
of the Sub-financing, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the
amount of the Sub-financing then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's
failure to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-financing
Agreement; and
(2) require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards
(including any EIAs, EMPs or other documents required under the
Environmental Management Framework) and practices satisfactory
to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other
than the Borrower; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources
required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods and services to be
financed out of the Sub-financing in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement; (D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to
enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project and the
achievement 
of its objectives; 
(E) 
(1) maintain 
a financial
8
management 
system and 
prepare 
financial 
statements 
in
accordance 
with 
consistently 
applied 
accounting 
standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project;
and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable
to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the
Borrower and the Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the
Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
(ii) 
The Borrower, through MSES, BICRO or UKF, as applicable, shall
exercise its rights under each Sub-financing Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-
financing Agreement or any of its provisions.
D. 
Safeguards.
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the Environmental Management Framework, and shall ensure that no
provision of the Environmental Management Framework is amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived without prior approval by the Bank.
(b) 
For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph (a) shall apply also to technical
assistance provided under Part A.2(b) of the Project, including the preparation of
Sub-project applications for EU Funds, and the Borrower shall ensure that (i) the
terms of reference for any consultancies related to the technical assistance under
Part A.2 (b) of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank and, to that end, such
terms of reference shall require that the advice conveyed and documentation
prepared through such technical assistance be consistent with the requirements of
the Environmental Management Framework; (ii) technical assistance activities
are screened for environmental and social impacts and to determine eligibility in
accordance with the Environmental Management Framework; and (iii) the
required environmental documentation, such as EIA or EMP, is prepared as part
of the technical assistance activity in accordance with the provisions of the
Environmental Management Framework.
2. 
Prior to any Sub-financing MSES, BICRO and UKF shall screen Sub-projects for
environmental and social impacts to determine eligibility of a proposed Sub-
financing in accordance with the Environmental Management Framework, and
for each Sub-project requiring an EIA or EMP, or both EIA and EMP, pursuant
to the provisions set forth in the Environmental Management Framework, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) an EIA or EMP, or both EIA and EMP are
prepared; (b) such EIA or EMP, or both EIA and EMP, comply with the
9
provisions of the Environmental Management Framework; (c) meaningful
consultations are conducted and the EIA or EMP, or both EIA and EMP, are
adequately disclosed; and (d) that each Subproject is carried out in accordance
with such EIA or EMP or both EIA and EMP.
3. 
No technical assistance activity or Sub-financing shall be eligible to be financed
from the proceeds of the Loan if it involves:
(a) 
any activities involving the involuntary taking of land resulting in
relocation or loss of shelter, loss of assets or access to assets, loss of
income sources or means of livelihood, or involving the involuntary
restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas; or
(b) 
any activities likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts
that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented, that would be classified as
'Category A' in accordance with the Bank's applicable policies and
procedures.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under
the Preparation Advance for the Project. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.
10
4. 
The 
Borrower, through 
MSES, shall 
ensure 
that BICRO 
maintains a
financial management system and prepares financial statements in accordance
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a
manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of BICRO,
including its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project, and
shall have BICRO's financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of these financial statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of BICRO, commencing with the fiscal year in
which the first withdrawal was made under the Preparation Advance for the
Project, and the Borrower shall ensure that BICRO's audited financial statements
for each period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the end of the period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, 
IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following method, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) 
Shopping; 
(b) National Competitive Bidding
procedures, subject to the additional procedures stipulated in the Annex to this
Schedule; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Well-established Private Sector
Procurement Methods or Commercial 
Practices which have been found
acceptable to the Bank.
11
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; 
(e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) 
Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank; (g) Selection of Individual Consultants;
and (h) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in EUR) 
financed
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
6,875,000 
100%
services, Training,
consultants' services for
Part A of the Project, and
Operating Costs and audit
for the Project
12
(2) Sub-financing under 
6,325,000 
78%
Part B.1 of the Project
(3) Sub-financing under 
4,875,000 
71%
Part B.2 of the Project
(4) 
Refund 
of 
the 
1,200,000 
Amount payable pursuant
Preparation Advance 
to Section 2.07 (a) of the
General Conditions
(5) Front-end Fee 
50,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to 
Section 
2.03 of this
Agreement 
in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(6) Unallocated 
675,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017.
13
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
For the purposes of following National Competitive Bidding procedures in the
procurement of goods and non-consulting services to be financed under the Loan, the
following modifications and additions shall apply:
(i) 
Procedures
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts. Invitations to bid shall be
advertised in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Narodne Novine) and in at least one
widely circulated national daily newspaper or on the website of the Ministry of Science,
Education and Sports, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and
submission of bids.
(ii) 
Participation of Govemment-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower's territory
shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the Bank's
satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
laws and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower's government. Said enterprises
shall be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.
(iii) 
Bidding Documents
The Borrower shall use appropriate bidding documents that are acceptable to the
Bank.
(iv) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(1) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder's
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened simultaneously
at the public bid opening.
(2) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids. The name of the bidder, the total amount of each bid and any
discounts offered shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes of the public bid
opening.
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point system shall not
be used.
(4) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than
thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be granted without the prior approval of the
Bank.
14
(5) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid.
(6) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding.
(v) 
Rejection of All Bids
(1) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's
prior written concurrence.
(2) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding shall not
be carried out without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(vi) 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the contract;
and performance securities not more than ten percent (10%). No advance payments shall
be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security. The wording of all
such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be acceptable to
the Bank.
15
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each 
May 
15 
and November 
15 
8.33%
Beginning May 15, 2017,
Through May 15, 2022
On November 15, 2022 
8.37%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
16
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date,
the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
17
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiary" means an entity which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operational Procedures and accordingly is eligible to receive Sub-financing
under Part B of the Project.
3. 
"BICRO" 
means the Borrower's Business 
Innovation Croatian Agency,
established by the Borrower under the authority of the MSES through the
"Decree 
on Establishment of Business 
Innovation Croatian Agency" 
of
November 11, 2010, as amended on March 14, 2012 (Official Gazette 129/2010
and 31/2012).
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Connectivity 
Program" 
means 
the 
Borrower's 
Connectivity 
Program,
established by a decision of the UKF's steering committee dated January 29,
2007, as amended up to the date of this Agreement, and administered by UKF in
accordance with the Operational Procedures, as such program may be updated
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
7. 
"Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment" 
or 
"EIA" 
means 
a 
site-specific
environmental impact assessment prepared, as required, in accordance with the
EMF.
8. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the framework
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, dated August, 2012, in form, substance
and manner satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of: the set of mitigation,
monitoring, institutional and screening measures required for the technical
assistance to be provided under the Project as well as the activities under the Sub-
projects and to be taken to eliminate adverse environmental impacts, offset them,
or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement said
measures, including the measures and information required for the preparation of
site-specific environmental management plans (EMPs).
9. 
"EMP" means a site-specific environmental management plan prepared, as
required, in accordance with the EMF.
10. 
"EU Funds" means funding made available to eligible applicants by the
European Union (EU) under its funding facilities in the research and innovation
18
sector, including, but not limited to, the European Regional Development Fund
(ERDF); European Social Fund (ESF) and the Horizon 2020.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
12. 
"Horizon 2020" means the EU HORIZON 2020 Framework Programme for
Research and Innovation, a financial instrument for support of the EU's
innovation union.
13. 
"MSES" means the Borrower's Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and
includes any successor thereto.
14. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental operating costs incurred by the MSES,
including BICRO and UKF, on account of Project implementation, including,
office equipment, maintenance and supplies, travel expenses; and other Project-
related incremental costs as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank
(but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service).
15. 
"Operational 
Procedures" 
means the Guidelines and Procedures for the
Borrower's Program I, II and III, and the Young Researchers and Professionals
Program, 
Research 
Cooperability 
Program, 
Connectivity 
Program 
and
Technology Transfer Office Support Program, agreed with the Bank and adopted
by BICRO, MSES and UKF, as applicable, setting forth eligibility criteria and
procedures for selection, appraisal and approval of Beneficiaries and Sub-
projects to be financed under the Project, as well as the procedures for
administration and monitoring of implementation of Sub-projects, as the same
may be updated from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"PIP" means the project implementation plan adopted by the Borrower for the
first year of Project implementation, dated March 13, 2013, as the same may be
updated from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"PIU" means the project implementation unit established by the Borrower within
MSES for the purposes of Project management.
18. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter
agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on February 16, 2012 and on behalf of
the Borrower on April 30. 2012 (IBRD P4640-HR).
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated March 14, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19
21. 
"POM" 
means 
the 
project operations manual dated April 3, 2013,
setting forth procedures and requirements for carrying out the Project, adopted by
the Borrower and agreed with the Bank, as the same may be amended from time
to time with the agreement of the Bank.
22. 
"Program I" means the Borrower's Proof of Concept (PoC) Program, adopted by
BICRO in April, 2010, as amended up to the date of this Agreement, and
administered by BICRO in accordance with the Operational Procedures, as such
program may be updated from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
23. 
"Program II" means the Borrower's program on innovative technologies for
supporting research and development activities in start-ups and small and
medium 
enterprises 
through 
commercialization 
of their research 
and
development outputs (currently known as RAZUM Program), adopted by the
Borrower on July 12, 2006 under the "Guidelines for fostering innovation
technology system", as amended up to the date of this Agreement, and
administered by BICRO in accordance with the Operational Procedures, as such
program may be updated from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
24. 
"Program Ill" means the Borrower's Sponsored Research and Development
(currently known as SPREAD) Program, adopted by the Borrower on July 12,
2006 under the "Guidelines for fostering innovation technology system", as
amended up to the date of this Agreement, and administered by BICRO in
accordance with the Operational Procedures, as such program may be updated
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
25. 
"Research 
Cooperability 
Program" 
means 
the 
Borrower's 
Research
Cooperability Program, established by a decision of the UKF's steering
committee dated January 29, 2007, as amended up to the date of this
Agreement, and administered by UKF in accordance with the Operational
Procedures, as such program may be updated from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.
26. 
"Sub-financing" means any financing in the form of a loan, grant or equity
investment made or proposed to be made, pursuant to the provisions of a Sub-
financing Agreement and in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth
in the Operational Procedures, by MSES (through BICRO or UKF, as
appropriate), to an eligible Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a Sub-
project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
27. 
"Sub-financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between
MSES (for itself or UKF, as appropriate), or MSES through BICRO, as
applicable, and a Beneficiary on the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and the Operational Procedures, for the purposes of financing and
implementing a Sub-project under Part B of the Project.
28. 
"Sub-project" means a specific project eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the criteria
set forth in the Operational Procedures, to be carried out by a Beneficiary using a
Sub-financing under Part B of the Project.
20
29. 
"Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee referred to in Section I.A.1
(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30. 
"Training" means Project-related training for selected institutions, and includes
Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other
training activities, not included under service providers' contracts, including
costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, reasonable and necessary
local and international travel by participants in training activities, reasonable
lodging and accommodation, subsistence and local and international per diem of
trainees and trainers, registration, tuition and facilitators' fees, translation and
interpretation, and other training related miscellaneous costs, all based on
budgets acceptable to the Bank.
31. 
"Technology 
Transfer Office 
Support Program" 
means 
the Borrower's
Technology Transfer Office Support Program, adopted by the MSES on April 3,
2013, and administered by MSES in accordance with the Operational Procedures
as such program may be updated from time to time with the prior agreement of
the Bank.
32. 
"UKF" means the Borrower's Unity Through Knowledge Fund, established
within, and administered by, the MSES.
33. 
"Working Group" means the Working Group referred to in Section I.A.1 (d) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
34. 
"Young Researchers and Professionals Program" means the Borrower's Young
Researchers and Professionals Program, established by a decision of the UKF's
steering committee dated January 29, 2007, as amended up to the date of this
Agreement, and administered by UKF in accordance with the Operational
Procedures, as such program may be updated from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.
21
