7 
OFFICW.
DOCUMENTA',
LOAN NUMBER 8272 - BR
Loan Agreement
(Sio Paulo Sustainable Transport Project -
Programa de Transporte, Logistica e Melo Ambiente)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SAO PAULO
Dated 
,2013
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 6PernArr 2 2013, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and STATE OF SAO
PAULO ("Borrower"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Borrower's Finance Secretariat.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
GA~ N/c
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior non-objection
of the Guarantor through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause DER-SP to carry out: (i) Part 1.1 of the Project;
-2-
and (ii) the other Parts of the Project with the assistance of the following
Participating Entities, as described below:
(a) 
SLT for Part 1.2 of the Project;
(b) 
SPDR for Part 2.1 (i) of the Project;
(c) 
SMA for Part 2.1 (ii) and 2.2 (i) of the Project;
(d) 
CETESB for Part 2.2 (ii) and Part 2.3 of the Project; and
(e) 
IG for Part 3 of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
DER-SP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement, in such a manner so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Project, and
the Borrower shall have failed to take any action to remedy such failure
of performance in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
Any Participating Entity shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the respective Cooperation Agreement, in such a
manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Bank, the carrying out of the pertinent Part of the Project supported by
the respective Participating Entity, and the Borrower shall have failed to
take any action to remedy such failure of performance in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, in which case the Bank may suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account for Eligible Expenditures incurred in respect of said Part of the
Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of 120 days after notice of the event has been given by
the Bank to the Borrower.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the Borrower and DER-SP.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by DER-
SP and the Borrower and is legally binding upon DER-SP and the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
(b) 
The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's
approval of the Loan which expire on December 12, 2014.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Paldcio dos Bandeirantes
Avenida Morumbi, 4500 - Morumbi
Sdo Paulo - SP, 05650-000
Brazil
Phone: (55-11) 2193-8945/8018
Facsimile: (55-11) 2193-8738
With copies to:
Secretaria da Fazenda/Gabinete do Secreti1rio
Avenida Rangel Pestana, 300 - 5o andar, Centro
Sdo Paulo - SP, 01017-911
Brazil
Phone: (55-11) 3243-4697/3719
Facsimile: (55-11) 3104-5953
Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (DER/SP)
Unidade de Coordenaqdo de Programas Rodovidrios (UCPR)
Avenida do Estado no 777, sala 2123
SAo Paulo - SP, 01107-000
Brazil
-4-
Facsimile: (55-11) 3311-2286
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Orcamento e GestAo
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Minist6rios, Bloco "K" - 50 andar
Brasilia - DF, 70040-906,
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
v 
Ee,le. 
F 
Aah&je 
-1,61. 
/ 
iqE(Z, 
as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF SAO PAULO
Authorized 
epresentative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the improvement of the
Borrower's transport and logistics efficiency and safety while enhancing the Borrower's
capacity in environmental and disaster risk management.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improving transport and logistics efficiency and safety
Provision of support to improve the Borrower's transport and logistics efficiency
and safety, through the carrying out of the following activities:
1.1 
Rehabilitating and upgrading the Borrower's transport networks:
Provision of support to DER-SP to restore and upgrade the Borrower's transport
networks to improve connectivity, reduce logistics costs and improve road
transport safety, through the rehabilitation and improvement of the existing
transport 
infrastructures, 
including, 
inter alia: (a) 
road rehabilitation,
construction of third lanes, duplications, slope protection and improvement of
intersections of approximately 280 km of existing paved roads of the Borrower
which have been selected based on their potential contribution to intermodality;
(b) reconstruction of two bridges with wider clearance on the Tiete and
Piracicaba rivers to enhance waterway navigation on the Tiete river; (c) carrying
out a pilot of CREMA Contracts on approximately 100 km; and (d) improving
road safety through selected pilot works under (a) and (c) above, based on the
recommendations of the iRAP Pilot Road Survey.
1.2 
Sustainable transport planning and management:
Provision of support to SLT to improve the Borrower's capacity to plan and
manage the transport sector through the carrying out of studies and the
acquisition of goods, all aimed at: (i) improving transport planning and
management with a view to increase multimodality, while embedding disaster
risk management as an instrument of public policy in support of the Borrower's
land use planning and territorial management agenda; (ii) greening transport in
the Borrower's territory through pilot investments notably based on the
recommendations of "Green Freight Study"; (iii) enhancing transport impact
assessment understanding; 
and (iv) improving road safety based on the
recommendations of the Capacity Assessment in Road Safety.
-6-
Part 2: Strengthening sustainable environmental and land use planning and
territorial management capacity
Provision of support in the area of land use planning and territorial management
and environmental management, through the carrying out of the following
activities:
2.1 
Supporting sustainable land use planning and territorial management
Improvement of the Borrower's capacity to plan and manage sustainable land use
and territorial development in an integrated fashion through the carrying out of
studies and the acquisition of goods, all aimed at, inter alia: (i) supporting the
SPDR in the establishment of an integrated land use planning and territorial
management, with an aim at articulating sector planning and management
policies in transport, environment and disaster risk management; and (ii)
supporting the SMA in the carrying out of activities for the development and
implementation of the Economic and Ecological Zoning (EEZ) with an aim at
providing orientation for public investments and development strategies.
2.2 
Improving environmental enforcement and environment quality monitoring
Improvement of the Borrower's capacity to manage and monitor environment
through the carrying out of studies and small works and the acquisition of goods,
all aimed at, inter alia: (i) improving environmental monitoring and control of
SMA with a view to strengthen enforcement, through pilot initiatives focusing on
innovation, including the acquisition of equipment (acceptable to the Bank) on a
pilot basis; and (ii) strengthening the capacity of CETESB to monitor air and
water in the Borrower's territory.
2.3 
Supporting the modernization of the Environmental Licensing System
Provision of support to CETESB to improve its capacity to efficiently process
environmental licenses and environmental strategic assessment services through
the carrying out of studies and the acquisition of goods, all aimed at, inter alia:
(i) 
upgrading 
and 
updating 
the 
management 
systems 
for processing
environmental licenses and simulating potential environmental impacts; and (ii)
enhancing the capacity of CETESB's staff.
Part 3: Increasing the Borrower's resilience to natural disasters
Provision of support to enhance the Borrower's capacity to plan for, and manage,
disasters, through the carrying out the following activities:
-7-M
3.1 
Mainstreaming disaster risk management in the transport sector
Provision of support to the IG to improve the Borrower's capacity to mainstream
disaster risk management in transport planning and program execution through
carrying out studies, small works and the acquisition of goods, all aimed at, inter
alia: (i) mainstreaming disaster and climate change risk in the Borrower's
transport masterplan (PDLT), 
including the evaluation of the sector's
vulnerability to natural hazards and potential socio economic impacts, notably
resulting from climate events, and developing integrated disaster response plans
for the transport sector in selected regions; and (ii) supporting the review of
technical specifications for road design and operation to improve resiliency of
road infrastructure exposed to mapped risks.
3.2 
Enhancing disaster risk management policy and institutional capacity
Strengthening the Borrower's overall capacity of disaster risk management,
through the carrying out of studies, capacity building activities and the
acquisition of goods to upgrade and support IG in the implementation of the
Borrower's disaster risk management program (PDN), including inter alia: (i)
mainstreaming disaster risk management practices at the planning level, through
supporting the design of disaster risk management frameworks 
and a
comprehensive conceptual and practical understanding of hazards, vulnerabilities
and risks, assessing economic and social impacts of particular disasters, and
supporting the Borrower's initiatives to established a framework for the
resettlement of populations located in immitigable high-risk areas; and (ii)
improving policies and procedures to better and more effectively respond to
disasters, through the development of monitoring and early warning systems,
methodologies and sharing of information and knowledge.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a Project
coordination unit (the PCU) within DER-SP, headed by a Project
coordinator, with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to
the Bank, including, inter alia: (i) the responsibility of the overall
coordination of the Project; and (ii) the provision of technical
cooperation and support to each Participating Entity during the carrying
out of the activities under the Project;
(b) 
not later than sixty (60) days after Effective Date, hire a management
consulting firm, staffed with a core team consisting of, at least, one
procurement specialist, one financial management specialist, one road
engineer and one structure engineer, under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, to provide the PCU with technical assistance on financial,
procurement 
and 
administrative 
matters 
with 
respect 
to 
the
implementation of the Project.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with DER-SP (the Subsidiary
Agreement), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall
include, inter alia:
(a) 
the Borrower's obligation to: (i) transfer to DER-SP the Loan proceeds
necessary to carry out the Project activities; and (ii) comply with the
pertinent obligations under this Agreement; and
(b) 
DER-SP's obligation to: (i) procure the works, goods, consultants'
services and Non-consulting services under the Project in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Section III of this Schedule; and (ii) carry
out the Project activities under their responsibility with due diligence and
efficiency and comply with the pertinent obligations under this
Agreement, including with the Safeguard Documents and the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate,
waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
C. 
Cooperation Agreement
1 .
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to, prior to carrying out any Project activity
which requires the assistance of a Participating Entity, enter into a cooperation
agreement (the Cooperation Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, with the
Participating Entities, setting forth the manner in which said entities will
participate in the implementation of the respective Part of the Project and
including, inter alia, the relevant entity obligation to collaborate in the
implementation of said Part of the Project in accordance with the terms and
provisions of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause DER-
SP not to amend, assign, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the
Cooperation Agreement. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the
Cooperation Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out,
in accordance with the provisions of a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the
Operational Manual), which shall include, inter alia: (a) the Performance
Indicators; (b) the procedures for the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation
of the Project; (c) the eligibility criteria for civil works selected under Part 1.1 of
the Project; (d) the procurement and financial requirements of the Project; (e) the
Procurement Plan; (f) the Safeguard Documents; (g) a Project chart of accounts
and internal controls, reporting procedures, and the format of the Interim
Unaudited Financial Reports, referred to in Section II.B.2 of this Schedule 2; and
(h) the functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff composition of the
PCU.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive
or fail to enforce any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank's
prior written approval. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the
Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
-10-
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
F. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP, with the assistance of the pertinent
Participating Entity, to implement, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, the
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment, the Environmental Management Plan, the Pest Management
Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, each Resettlement Action Plan,
the Process Framework and the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework. The
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated or waived any of the Safeguards documents or provision
thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
Wherever required under the terms of the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework or the Process Framework, the
Borrower shall, for the purposes of any activity, and prior to the implementation
thereof, proceed to have, respectively, an indigenous peoples plan, a resettlement
action plan or an action plan:
(i) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) 
except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, submitted to the Bank for
review and approval; and,
(iii) 
thereafter, adopted and disclosed.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and/or cause DER-SP and the Participating Entities to
ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of any Project
activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that
end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the
applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators set forth in the
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
- 11 -
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than two months after the
end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and Non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
-12 
-
!Il
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
Non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of goods, Non-
consulting services and works, convite, tomada de preVos and concorrgncia
set forth in the Guarantor's Law No. 8.666 of June 21, 1993, as well as
procurement in accordance with the method known as "pregdo eletr6nico",
as provided in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002, under an e-
procurement system approved by the Bank), subject to the following
additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be
acceptable to the Bank
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
(b) Quality-based Selection
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(e) Procedures set forth in Section V of the Consultants Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single Source Selection of consulting firms
(g) Single Source Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in paragraph 5.6
of the Consultant Guidelines
- 13 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures
Loan Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Dollars)
(1) Goods, works,
consultants'
services, Non- 
Up to 100% in accordance
consulting 
299,250,000 
with the criteria set forth in
Services and
Training for Parts
1, 2 and 3 of the
Project
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
(2) Front-end Fee 
750,000 
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
- 14 -
4N/0
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures
Loan Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Dollars)
(3) Premium for
(3ntrestm or CAmount 
payable pursuant to
0 
Section 2.07 (c) of this
and Interest Rate 
Agreement
Collars
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
3. 
For the purposes of this table, the term "Training" means reasonable expenditures
(other than those for consultants' services) 
incurred by the Borrower in
connection with the carrying out of workshops and training preparation and
administration under the Project, including, inter alia, travel costs, and per diem
of trainees, course fees, rental of training facilities and purchase of training
materials.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000 (sixty million
Dollars) equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after February 20, 2013, for Eligible Expenditures under Category 1.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2019. The Bank shall only grant an extension of
the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1 .
By October 31, 2016, or when Loan disbursements have reached 50% of the
Loan amount, whichever occurs first, and without limitation to the provisions of
Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review (Midterm Review) on
the progress in the implementation of the Project ; and
(b) 
immediately following such Midterm Review, 
act promptly and
diligently to take any corrective action as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and Bank.
-15 
-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2018,
through December 15, 2042 
2%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-16-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Capacity Assessment in Road Safety" means a study executed by the World
Bank in 2012-2013, aimed at assessing the institutional organization and capacity
of the Borrower in dealing with road safety.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"CETESB" means Companhia Ambiental do Estado de Sdo Paulo, the
Borrower's environmental agency, restructured and operating through Law
13.542 dated May 8, 2009 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette of
May 9, 2009, as amended to the date of this Agreement. Also known as the
"Nova CESTESB" (new CETESB), which incorporated among its new functions
(attributions or responsibilities) environmental licensing.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
7. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"CREMA Contracts" means a multi-year contract under Part 1.1 of the Project,
entered into by DER-SP with a private sector contractor, which contract obligates
the private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and
maintenance work as a single package, from design and programming of the
works, through the execution of such works, with respect to an identified portion
of the corresponding Borrower-managed paved road network.
9. 
"DER-SP" means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Sdo
Paulo, the Borrower's Road Administration Department vested with legal
personality and responsible for managing the Borrower's road network, regulated
-18 -
by the Borrower's Decree No. 26.673 of January 28, 1987, and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette No 19, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
10. 
"EEZ" means zoneamento ecol6gico econ6mico, an economic and ecological
zoning, defined by the Borrower's Policy on Climate Change (Politica Estadual
de Mudanqas Clim&ticas) as an instrument for regional development planning,
which provides guidelines on land use definition and the identification of
ecologically sensitive areas.
11. 
"Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessment" 
or "ESIA" means the
Borrower's integrated environmental and social impact assessment dated January
23, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, published and made available to the public on
DER-SP's website on January 29, 2013, which is comprised of three main parts:
(a) Part A: an environmental and social assessment; (b) Part B: an Environmental
Management Plan; and (c) Part C: an institutional strengthening program, as the
same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
12. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the Borrower's plan dated
January 23, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, published and made available to the
public on January 29, 2013, which contains the results of the Borrower's
environmental assessment of the same date and the mitigation measures to
mitigate, prevent and manage environmental and social impacts and risks
associated with the Project, as the same may be amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
14. 
"Green Freight Study" means a study executed by the World Bank, in 2011,
aimed at advising on means to reducing environmental impact and carbon
footprint of road freight in the Guarantor's territory.
15. 
"IG" means Instituto Geol6gico, the Borrower's Geological Survey Institute,
operating through Decree no 57933, dated April 2, 2012, which is within the
administrative jurisdiction of the SMA.
16. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework dated January 23, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, published and
available to the public on DER-SP's website on January 29, 2013, which sets
forth the principles and policies that shall apply to the preparation and carrying
out of any indigenous peoples plans that may be required under Part 2 of the
Project, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
-19-
17. 
"iRAP" means the International Road Assessment Program formed in 2006 as an
umbrella organization for EuroRAP, usRAP and AusRAP and also to facilitate
work in middle and low income countries, which aims at reducing the death toll
on the road worldwide and foster a world free of high risk roads.
18. 
"Non-consulting services" means surveys and other services of non-intellectual
and non-advisory nature that can be procured on the basis of performance or
measurable physical outputs.
19. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated April 12, 2013, and
referred to in Section I.D. 1. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"Participating Entities" means collectively SLT, SPDR, SMA, CETESB and IG.
21. 
"PCU" or "Project Coordination Unit" means Unidade de Coordenagdo de
Programas Rodovidrios, the unit referred to in Section L.A 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement established by the Borrower's Portaria SUP/DER-033, dated May
29, 2012.
22. 
"PDLT" means Plano Diretor de Logistica e Transporte, the Borrower's
transport and logistics master plan which aims at fostering quality service in
transport, mobility of people and goods, and improving logistics and
competitiveness of regional and national economies, while promoting sustainable
development.
23. 
"PDN" means Programa Estadual de Prevenqdo de Desastres Naturais e de
Redugdo de Riscos Geol6gicos, the Borrower's program for prevention of natural
disasters and reduction of geological risks, Decree 57512, dated November 11,
2011.
24. 
"Pest Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework dated January
23, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, included in the ESIA, which sets forth, inter
alia, the measures to be taken for the safe handling of pesticides/chemical
products in the course of Project implementation, as the same may be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
25. 
"Process Framework" or "PF" means the Borrower's framework dated January
23, 2013, 
acceptable to the Bank (included in the Resettlement Policy
Framework) published and made available to the public on January 29, 2013,
which sets forth, inter alia, the specific measures to compensate for any loss of
assets and associated income resulting from potential involuntary restrictions of
access to natural resources in legally designated Parts or 
protected areas
(including reserves), and 
the grievance resolution mechanisms in order to
-20-
resolve the issues that may arise during the implementation of the activities to be
carried out under Part 2 of the Project, as the same may be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
26. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
27. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 12, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
28. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or
means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must
move to another location); or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently; or (ii) an involuntary restriction of access to natural resources in
legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes an
adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
29. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework
dated January 23, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the
public on DER-SP's website on January 29, 2013, specifying the population
resettlement 
policies, 
planning 
principles, 
institutional 
arrangements,
procurement arrangements and design criteria that shall apply to the preparation
and carrying out of the resettlement plans for the resettlement of population that
may be required under Part 3 of the Project, and including the Process
Framework, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
30. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" (RAP) means the Borrower's action plan dated
January 23, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public
on DER-SP's website, and included in the RPF, which sets forth the resettlement
principles 
and policies, 
institutional responsibilities, 
eligibility 
criteria,
alternative compensations, schedule of implementation, budget, grievance
mechanisms, and monitoring and evaluation actions, associated with the carrying
out of the civil works under Part 1.1. of the Project, as the same may be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
-21 -
31. 
"Safeguard Documents" means the ESIA (including the Pest Management
Framework), the EMP, the IPPF and the RPF (including the RAP and the PF), as
the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
32. 
"SLT" means Secretaria de Logistica e Transportes, the Borrower's Secretariat
of Logistics and Transport, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
33. 
"SMA" means Secretaria do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower's Environment
Secretariat, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
34. 
"SPDR" means Secretaria de Planejamento e Desenvolvimento Regional, the
Borrower's Secretariat of Planning and Regional Development, or any successor
thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
35. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-22-
