OFFICIAL
BOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8323-AL
Loan Agreement
(Water Sector Investment Project)
Between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8323-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
kNUUA 
V 
6 
, 2014, between the REPUBLIC
OF 
ALBANIA 
("Borrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I-GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II-LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty two million five hundred
thousand Euro (E62,500,000) ("Loan"), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15th in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III-PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MTI in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV-EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Borrower has prepared and adopted a Project Operations Manual satisfactory
to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-3-
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Facsimile:
355 42228494
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Tirana, Republic of Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
crKE&,/7 
C 
/
Title: 
71'A1,f Fe-P, 
2PP)f 
'A
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
EN 
SA vC
Title: 
COUA) 770 
* 
4C
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the quality of water and
wastewater services in the DWU Service Area; and (ii) 
improve the financial
performance of DWU.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Priority Water Supply Investments
Carrying out priority water supply investments, including, inter alia:
(a) 
development of water supply production wells and a bulk water supply
transmission pipeline to address the water shortages in the DWU Service
Area;
(b) 
development of elevated reservoirs linking local government units within
DWU 
Service Area and along the transmission pipeline route to the
water supply system in a sustainable manner; and
(c) 
rehabilitation and upgrading the existing water distribution network in
DWU Service Area, as well as provision of leak detection equipment and
pressure reducing valves to reduce water losses, all through provision of
goods, works, consultants' services, and non-consulting services.
Part 11: Wastewater Network Investments
Carrying out priority network investments aimed at enhancing the existing
sewerage network capacity, including, inter alia:
(a) 
upgrading works on critical parts of the sewerage and storm water
drainage networks to collect and treat all dry weather flows and reduce
overflows;
(b) 
constructing secondary and tertiary sewage network for the coastal DWU
Service Area;
(c) 
providing high-powered sewer cleaning equipment; and
(d) 
strengthening DWU's initial ability to operate and maintain the new
Durres wastewater treatment plant, all through provision of goods,
works, consultants' services, Training, and non-consulting services.
-6-
Part III: Institutional Development Program, Utility Strengthening and Water Demand
Management
Supporting the implementation of the Borrower's broad-based policy in the water
sector both at the local and national levels, including, inter alia:
(a) 
designing and implementing the water demand management program
through implementation of an effective metering system in the DWU
Service Area and carrying out a public awareness campaign focusing on
water conservation and improved management;
(b) 
building capacity of the PMBU within MTI through capacity building
activities to enhance data collection and monitoring functions;
(c) 
preparing and implementing a comprehensive business plan and a
Performance 
Improvement 
Plan 
to 
strengthen 
the 
institutional,
operational, commercial, and managerial capacity of DWU, including
designing the customer review surveys and carrying 
out public
awareness campaigns;
(d) 
building capacity of operational staff of DWU through training, and
conducting a study focused on an energy audit and preparing a
preliminary energy saving management plan; and
(e) 
carrying out an independent annual audit of DWU, all through provision
of goods, works, consultants' services, and non-consulting services.
Part IV: Project Implementation Support
Supporting the monitoring, evaluation and reporting functions of the MTI,
project investment technical reviews, and project supervision through financing the
Operating Costs, provision of goods, consultants' services, and non-consulting services.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall implement the Project through MTI, and at all times during
Project implementation, the Borrower, through MTI, shall ensure that the PIU
within MTI is maintained with adequate funds, facilities, services and other
resources, and with suitably qualified staff in sufficient numbers.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
The Borrower, through MTI, shall ensure that, throughout its implementation, the
Project is implemented in accordance with the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, any provision of
the Project Operations Manual.
C. 
Project Committee
1. 
The Borrower, through MTI, shall no later than April 30, 2014, establish a
Project Committee, with a composition, terms of reference, and resources
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Project Committee shall be responsible for the necessary communication and
coordination among Project stakeholders.
D. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section L.A of this Agreement, the
Borrower may enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with DWU, for the purposes of
DWU's repayment of the proceeds of the Loan to the Borrower on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
In the event of such arrangement, the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect its own interests and of the
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Project. The Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive said Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions without prior written approval of the Bank.
-8-
E. 
Project Implementation Agreement
1 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section L.A of this Agreement, and
except the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, and no later than April
30, 2014, the Borrower shall cause MTI to enter into a Project Implementation
Agreement (hereinafter, the "PIA") with DWU, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, DWU's commitment : (i)
to the objectives of the Project; and (ii) to provide technical support for the
Project, as the case may be; (iii) to make all necessary information available for
carrying out annual independent audits financed under Part 111(e) of the Project;
and (iv) to facilitate the preparation of the performance improvement plan,
financed under Part 111(c) of the Project, and carrying out the recommendations
of said plan.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MTI exercises its rights under the PIA in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Project. The Borrower shall ensure that MTI
does not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Project Implementation
Agreement or any of its provisions without prior approval of the Bank.
F. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
G. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of
carrying out the Project comply with the World Bank's Safeguard Policies.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure, through MTI, the implementation of the RPF,
RAP(s), EIA, and EMP, all in accordance with their respective terms, including
application and implementation of, as the case may be, the policies, procedures
and arrangements therein respectively set forth.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MTI does not amend, suspend, abrogate,
terminate or waive, or permit to be amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated
or waived, any of the RPF, RAP(s), EIA, and EMP, or any provision of any one
thereof, except with the prior written approval of the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the site-specific
RAP, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of
said Plan without the prior written approval of the Bank. In particular, the
Borrower shall ensure that:
-9-
(a) 
all necessary actions are taken to minimize, to the extent possible, any
involuntary loss by affected persons of shelter, productive assets or
access to productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily
or permanently;
(b) 
all rights to land, usufructs or customary rights and other property are
allocated or acquired, equitable compensation thereof is paid and
resettlement is carried out in accordance with the principles and
institutional procedures established in the respective RAP(s);
(c) 
affected 
persons 
shall 
be 
equitably compensated, 
resettled and
rehabilitated in accordance with the respective RAP(s);
(d) 
the 
implementation 
arrangements 
for 
resettlement, 
including
compensation, relocation and rehabilitation of affected persons are
documented; and
(f) 
the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the respective RAP(s)
is completed and reported in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(g) 
The Borrower shall not commence any works under the Project until the
respective RAP(s) is fully implemented.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through MTI, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to
the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MTI, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MTI, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
- 10-
3. 
The Borrower, through MTI, shall have the Financial Statements related to the
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions contained in paragraph 3 of this
Section; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower's National Competitive Bidding Procedures.
The National Competitive Bidding procedures ("NCB") shall be based on the
Open Tendering procedures as defined in the Public Procurement Law ("PPL")
- 11 -
of Albania (Law No. 9643 dated November 20, 2006, as amended), provided,
however, that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines and the following
additional provisions:
(i) 
"Open Tendering" procedures as defined in the PPL of Albania shall
apply to all contracts financed by the Bank.
(ii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process.
Government-owned enterprises in Albania shall be permitted to bid only
if they are legally and financially autonomous and operate under
commercial law of the Borrower. Registration shall not be used to assess
bidders' qualifications.
(iii) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the
deadline for submission of bids in the presence of the representatives
who choose to attend.
(iv) 
The procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents as approved
by the Bank.
(v) 
In case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all bids
shall not be rejected without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
(vi) 
A single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids.
(vii) 
Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated
bidder; no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on
qualification grounds.
(viii) 
Bidders in the form of a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally
liable.
(ix) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the prior concurrence of
the Bank shall be obtained.
(x) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in
accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria.
(xi) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
or any other bidders.
(xii) 
Contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain
appropriate price adjustment provisions.
- 12-
(xiii) 
Bid and contract guarantees shall be in the format included in the bidding
documents. The bid guarantee shall be valid for twenty-eight days (28)
beyond the original validity period of the bid, or beyond any period of
extension if requested. No advance payments shall be made to without a
suitable advance payment guarantee.
(xiv) 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the Bank,
shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in
the Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that
bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the
Bank to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them audited
by auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede
the exercise of the Bank's inspection and audit rights provided for in the
Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in
the Procurement Guidelines.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; and (f) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 13 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Category 
(expressed in EUR) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works 
53,900,000 
100%
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
3,700,000 
100%
services
(3) Consultants' 
Services 
4,500,000 
100%
and Training
(4) Operating Costs 
243,750 
100%
(5) Front-end Fee 
156,250 
Amount payable pursuant
to 
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
- 14-
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed E6,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 31, 2013, for
Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
- 15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
(Expressed as a
Principal Payment Date 
Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2024 through April 15, 2036 
3.85%
3.75%
On October 15, 2036
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
- 16 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"DWU" means Durres Water Utility of the Borrower and public joint stock
company with juridical personality established and operating pursuant to Durres
District Tribunal Decree No. 51 dated March 15, 1993, or any legal successor
thereof.
5. 
"DWU Service Area" means such area as defined and demarcated for the
purposes of DWU's operations, pursuant to Decision No. 660 of the Government
of the Republic of Albania, dated September 12, 2007.
6. 
"EIA" means the Environmental Impact Assessment, dated May 2013, prepared
and adopted by the Borrower, disclosed in the Borrower's territory on May 21,
2013, and in the Bank's InfoShop on May 22, 2013 referred to in Schedule 2,
Section LA of this Agreement, and satisfactory to the Bank, describing the rules,
guidelines and procedures to assess environmental impacts of the Project's
activities 
and defining measures 
to reduce, mitigate or offset adverse
environmental impacts and enhance the positive impacts of the Project's
activities, as the same shall be amended from time to time with the prior approval
of the Bank.
7. 
"EMP" means 
a site-specific Environmental Management Plan comprised of
environmental mitigation plan and environmental monitoring plan dated May,
2013 prepared and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to the EIA and in
conformity with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual, and to be
implemented by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2,
Section I.G.2 of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, wherein are set forth
specific details of measures to manage identified or potential environmental risks
and to mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts associated
with the implementation of activities under the Project, together with an
environmental and social baseline for each site, details of the relevant
environmental legislative framework, adequate institutional, monitoring and
- 18-
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the same may be amended and
supplemented from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
9. 
"Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure" or "MTI" means the Borrower's
Ministry responsible for, inter alia, water and sanitation, or its legal successor
thereto.
10. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental operating costs incurred by the PIU on
account of Project implementation, management, monitoring and supervision (as
such expenditures are set forth in the PIU annual budget), including office
supplies, 
office 
equipment 
maintenance, 
software/user 
license 
fees,
communication, local travel, vehicles operation and maintenance and salaries of
the PIU staff (but excluding salaries of civil servants of the Borrower).
I1. 
"Performance Improvement Plan" means a plan developed by the Borrower
outlining, inter alia, specific actions for strengthening cost recovery, reducing
water losses, and improving the overall efficiency of DWU operations.
12. 
"PIU" means the Project Implementing Unit established within MTI and referred
to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"PMBU" means Performance Monitoring and Benchmarking Unit responsible
for monitoring the Project, and currently operating under MTI, or its legal
successor thereto.
14. 
"Project Committee" means a committee to be established by the Borrower
pursuant to Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with terms of reference
and composition satisfactory to the Bank, and comprising of the representatives
of the MTI, DWU, and local government units, as the case may be.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
16. 
"Project Implementation Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into by
MTI and DWU for the purposes of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the World Bank, pursuant to Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the project operations manual prepared in
accordance with Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and confirmed to be
satisfactory by the Bank and adopted by the Borrower, describing and setting forth
-19-
procedures for implementation of the Project and institutional arrangements,
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with applicable laws and
regulations and including, inter alia, timetables of actions required to be carried
out under the Project, the respective roles and responsibilities of the actors
involved in the implementation of the Project (including DWU and the Project
Committee), staffing, the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and
procedures 
for 
implementation of the 
Project, 
including the financial
management 
procedures 
(budgeting, 
accounting 
and 
internal 
control,
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and
external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of
accounts), procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and
other fiduciary and administrative arrangements and necessary terms of
reference, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement with the
Bank.
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 11, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or "RAP(s)" means the site-specific documents, to
be prepared and adopted by the Borrower, 
pursuant to the RPF and in
conformity with the Operations Manual and Schedule 2, Section 1(G) of this
Agreement, and satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, a program of
actions, measures 
and policies for compensation of persons, 
including
compensation arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on
compliance with its terms for each site, as the same may be amended and
supplemented from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval; and
"RAP" means one of the above-referenced RAP(s).
20. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's policy
framework for resettlement, dated May, 2013, disclosed in the Borrower's
territory on May 21, 2013, and in the Bank's Infoshop on May 21, 2013, referred
to in Schedule 2, Section 1(G) of this Agreement, and satisfactory to the World
Bank, providing procedures and guidelines for the preparation, adoption,
implementation and monitoring of Resettlement Action Plans, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
21. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means an agreement which the Borrower may enter into
with DWU for the purposes of DWU's repayment of the proceeds of the Loan to
the Borrower, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
- 20 -
22. 
"Training" means all expenditures related to training activities under the Project
such as training workshops, seminars, study tours and local training, travel costs
and per-diem allowances for the trainers and trainees, cost of training materials,
space and equipment rental, and other related expenditures approved by the
Bank.
23. 
"World Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the Bank operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OPs/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.36, 4.09, 4.11, 4.10, 4.12, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published
under www.WorldBank.ori/opmanual.
