OFICAL
WEATS1
LOAN NUMBER 8335-PH
Loan Agreement
(KALAHI-CIDSS National Community Driven Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
o Ad 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
6f 
ld J_ 
, 2014, entered into between
the REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower
and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Preamble and the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred seventy-nine million
Dollars ($479,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the Project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable' Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through DSWD in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
-3 -
through DSWD, ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex
Roxas Blvd.
Manila, Philippines
Facsimile:
(63-2) 523-9216
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-4-
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
Name: CEgAR 
/. INARISIMA
Title: 
SECRETAILy, DOF
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
U=MAN W 
DIONE
Title: ACTIk)6 COUNTY DIReCTOR
PH LI Pp4j Eg
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to empower communities 
in targeted
municipalities to achieve improved access to services and to participate in more inclusive
local planning, budgeting and implementation.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Barangay (Community) Sub-Grants for Planning and Investment
(a) 
Provision of Sub-grants to beneficiary Barangays to: (i) carry out specific
activities for the orientation, consultation, participatory priority-setting, action planning,
review and approval of Sub-projects at Barangay and inter-Barangay (municipal) levels,
including the provision of technical assistance to ensure the quality of design and
development of community infrastructure, facilities, services and other priority activities
identified by communities; and (ii) develop and/or improve community-identified priority
infrastructure, 
facilities and 
services and other priority activities identified by
communities, including activities in response to an Eligible Crisis or Emergency, as
needed.
(b) 
Provision of training and other technical support to strengthen the
capacity of community volunteers to facilitate the implementation of Sub-projects.
Part 2. Local Capacity Building and Implementation Support
Carrying out of specific activities to strengthen the capacity of local government
units and area coordination teams to conduct poverty reduction action planning, budget
execution and public financial management, including to facilitate and oversee the
planning and implementation of Sub-projects; carrying out of specific activities to
strengthen the capacity of relevant sector and sub-national units and staff of national
government agencies to enhance their community based activities; and review and
revision of legal instruments, policies and guidelines to integrate and 
mainstream
community-driven development principles.
Part 3. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out of the day-to-day coordination, administration, procurement,
financial management, environmental and social management; communication and
dissemination of information to sensitize stakeholders to the Project's objectives,
strategies and lessons learned; monitoring, evaluation and audit of the Project at the
national, regional and sub-regional levels, including the carrying out of relevant studies
-6-
for the purposes of the Project such as reviews of the technical quality of infrastructure,
economic rates of return on investments, process monitoring of procedural variations in
different contexts (conflict, disasters, indigenous populations), and analyses of outcomes
of different methodological approaches; and provision of operational assistance to
regional and municipal offices of DSWD in disaster affected areas to reestablish
operational capacity.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a National Steering Committee with a mandate and composition
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Without limitation to the foregoing, the National
Steering Committee shall: (a) be chaired by the Secretary of DSWD and
comprise representatives of relevant national government and oversight agencies,
the Recipient's National Commission on Indigenous Peoples, the leagues of
provinces, municipalities and barangays, and civil society organizations; and (b)
be responsible for, inter alia: (i) providing overall policy direction and oversight
of the Project; (ii) facilitating the coordination of Project activities among the
entities represented 
in the National 
Steering Committee, 
and making
recommendations for actions to resolve policy and strategic issues that require
inter-agency decision; and (iii) reviewing annually, or more often if required,
progress made towards achieving the Project's objectives.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a national and regional Project management teams staffed and managed
by DSWD, such teams to have functions and resources set forth in the Project
Operations Manual, to be responsible for approving the Project Financing Plans,
and providing technical advice and guidance to the national and regional Project
management offices and the area coordination teams referred to in paragraphs 3-
5 below.
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, national Project management office within DSWD, such office to have
functions, resources and staff in numbers and with terms of reference and
qualifications as set forth in the Project Operations Manual, to be responsible for
managing the national implementation of the Project and providing inter-regional
coordination for such implementation.
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a regional Project management office and, where necessary, sub-regional
Project management offices in each of the Regions in which the Project
Municipalities are located, all such offices with functions, resources and staff in
numbers and with terms of reference and qualifications as set forth in the Project
-8-
Operations Manual, to be responsible for providing technical guidance for, and
supervising and monitoring the regional implementation of the Project.
5. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, an area coordination team in each Project Municipality, with functions,
resources and staff in numbers and with terms of reference and qualifications as
set forth in the Project Operations Manual, to be responsible for overseeing and
supporting the implementation of Project activities at Barangay level.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements
and procedures set out in the Project Operations Manual (provided, however, that
in case of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures set out in the
Project Operations Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions
of this Agreement shall prevail), and shall not amend, abrogate or waive the
Project Operations Manual or any of its provisions without prior approval in
writing by the Bank.
C. 
Project Financing Plans
1 .
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval, not later
than 
November 
I of each 
year 
during 
the 
implementation 
of the
Project, a Project Financing Plan containing all eligible Project activities and
expenditures planned for the following fiscal year of the Borrower, including a
specification of the source or sources of financing for all eligible expenditures;
provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the Project Financing
Plans and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall not make or allow to be made any change to the approved
Project Financing Plans in respect of the proceeds of the Loan without prior
approval in writing by the Bank.
D. 
Sub-projects
1. 
For purposes of Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall select Sub-projects and
make Sub-grants to Beneficiaries, in accordance with the criteria and procedures
and on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Operations Manual and the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, including the following:
(a) 
An activity or activities shall be selected only if it meets the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
-9-
(b) 
Without limitation on the provisions of Section 2.05 of the General
Conditions, 
a Sub-project shall 
not include any 
activities and
expenditures on the negative list set forth in the Project Operations
Manual and the ESMF.
(c) 
A Sub-grant to a Beneficiary shall be approved only if:
(i) 
a Memorandum of Agreement, with terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, has been entered into between DSWD
and the Municipality in which the Beneficiary is located, and
said Municipality has agreed to comply with the relevant
provisions of the Project Operations Manual applicable to Sub-
projects;
(ii) 
the Beneficiary has prepared an environmental and social
management 
plan (including 
pest 
management 
plan 
as
applicable) in accordance with the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, in the event that the environmental
and social screening carried out in accordance with said
framework concludes that such plan is required;
(iii) 
the Beneficiary has prepared a land acquisition, resettlement and
rehabilitation plan in accordance with the ESMF, in the event the
Sub-project creates a Displaced Person or Persons; and
(iv) 
the Beneficiary has carried out consultations and a process of
informed participation with Indigenous Peoples, in accordance
with the ESMF, and prepared an Indigenous Peoples plan in the
event that the Sub-project impacts or may impact such peoples,
to ensure that the design and implementation of the Sub-project
adequately addresses the needs and cultural preferences of such
peoples.
(d) 
Each Sub-grant shall be made on conditions whereby the Borrower,
through 
DSWD, 
shall enter 
into a Sub-project 
Implementation
Agreement with the Beneficiary to obtain rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including without limitation the
rights to:
(i) 
require the Beneficiary to have in place prior to approval of a
Sub-grant and, thereafter maintain, a Sub-project implementation
team, with responsibilities and resources 
as set forth in the
Project Operations Manual;
-10-
(ii) 
require the Beneficiary to carry out its Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial, managerial, social and environmental standards and
practices, including in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(iii) 
require the Beneficiary to provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Sub-project;
(iv) 
require that the goods, works and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Sub-grant shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule and the
Project Operations Manual, and shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Sub-project;
(v) 
require that, where applicable, the Beneficiary implement an
environmental and social management plan (including pest
management plan as applicable), land acquisition, resettlement
and rehabilitation plan and Indigenous Peoples plan (including a
program of consultation with and informed participation by
Indigenous Peoples), if applicable, in accordance with the
ESMF;
(vi) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank such
goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in
the Sub-project, the operation thereof and any relevant records
and documents;
(vii) 
require the Beneficiary to provide the Borrower and the Bank all
such information as the Borrower or the Bank may reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration and
operations of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived
from its respective Sub-project;
(viii) 
require the Beneficiary to maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project
and the achievement of its objectives;
(ix) 
require the Beneficiary to maintain: (A) a financial management
system and prepare financial reports in a format acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project;
and (B) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such
financial reports audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;
(x) 
require the Beneficiary to complete all Sub-project activities and
submit all relevant financial management documentation prior to
the Closing Date, and in the event that Sub-project activities are
not completed by the Closing Date, to refund any unused and
unaccounted for Sub-grant funds to the Borrower; and
(xi) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-grant, or refund any proceeds of the Sub-
grant, upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations
under its Sub-project Implementation Agreement with the
Borrower.
2. 
Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of paragraph I of this Part D, for
the purposes of Emergency Sub-projects, the Borrower shall, through DSWD:
(a) 
ensure that the Emergency Response Sub-projects are carried out in
accordance with the Disaster Response Operations Sub-manual;
(b) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the
Disaster Response Operations Sub-manual without prior written approval
by the Bank; and
(c) 
not undertake any activities under the Emergency Response Sub-projects
unless and until: (i) an Eligible Crisis or Emergency has occurred; and
(ii) the Borrower has ensured the preparation and disclosure of all
environmental and social safeguards instruments required for said
activities in accordance with this Agreement and as detailed in the
Emergency Sub-Manual, and has ensured the implementation of any
actions which are required to be taken under said instruments.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
- 12-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in
the Project Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
(1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
4. 
As part of the annual audit referred to in the preceding paragraph and without
limitation thereof, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank a value-for-money audit
covering physical inspection, evaluation of sustainability, and adequacy of
maintenance and monitoring with respect to at least ten percent (10%) of Sub-
projects.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
- 13 -
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11 and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in paragraph 3 of this Part
B; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Community Participation
procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the
Project Operations Manual.
4. 
Additional National Competitive Bidding Provisions. 
The following
provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting
services under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
(a) eligibility
screening shall not be applied, provided however that bids that do not contain
any of the following documents shall not pass the documentary compliance
check: (i) evidence of the required financial, technical or production capability;
(ii) audited financial statements; (iii) credit line or cash deposit certificate; (iv)
bid security; and (v) authority of the bid signatory; (b) a ceiling may be applied
to bid prices provided the following conditions are met: (i) bidding documents
are obtainable free of charge on a freely accessible website; (ii) the agency has
procedures in place to ensure that the ABC is based on Engineer's Estimate; (iii)
the agency has trained cost estimators on estimating prices and analyzing bid
variance; and (iv) the agency has established a system to monitor and report bid
prices relative to ABC and Engineer's Estimate; (c) domestic or regional
preferences shall not be applied in the evaluation of bids, and other preference in
effect in the Philippines shall not be used except with prior concurrence of the
Bank; (d) foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if
- 14 -
interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint
venture, with local firms, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, even
without registration, licensing, and other government authorizations, leaving
these requirements for after award and before signing of contract; (e) alternative
procurement methods defined in the implementing rules and regulations such as
Limited Source Bidding, Direct Contracting and Shopping as acceptable, and the
use of the other alternative methods shall require prior Bank concurrence; and
(f) the e-bulletin board, e-catalogue of prices, subscriber's registry and e-
payments features of the Recipient's government electronic procurement system
(PhilGEPS) may be used with prior Bank concurrence as described in the Project
Operations Manual.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; (d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
-15 -
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-
consulting services, 
97610000
consultants' services, 
100%
Training and Operating
Costs
(2) Sub-grants under Part 
380,192,500 
100% of amounts
1(a) of the Project 
disbursed
(3) Front-end Fee 
Amount payable pursuant
1,197,500 
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
479,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1,
2014, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories I and 2.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date[, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2024
through August 15, 2038 
3.33%
On February 15, 2039 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-17-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"ABC" means the approved budget for the contract, as defined in Section 5(a) of
the 
Borrower's 
Implementing 
Rules 
and 
Regulations 
of Government
Procurement Reform Act (GRPA), Republic Act No 9184.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Barangay" means an administrative unit within a city or municipality in the
territory of the Borrower.
4. 
"Beneficiary" means a Barangay or an Indigenous Peoples organization selected
in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in the Project Operations
Manual, to receive financing for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part 1 of
the Project; and "Beneficiaries" means, collectively, all such Beneficiaries.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
7. 
"Disaster Response Operations Sub-manual" means the Borrower's manual
referred to in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and included in the
Project Operations Manual, as such manual may be revised from time to time
with the written approval of the Bank, setting forth detailed arrangements for the
approval and implementation of Emergency Response Sub-projects, including:
(a) special institutional arrangements for coordinating and implementing the
Emergency Response Sub-projects; (b) specific activities which may be included
in the Emergency Response Sub-projects, which may include certain activities
which are otherwise excluded in respect of Sub-projects under Part 1 (a) of the
Project pursuant to Section I.D. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Eligible
Expenditures required therefor ("Emergency Expenditures"), and any procedures
for such inclusion; (c) application of the ESMF to the Emergency Response Sub-
projects; and (d) other arrangements necessary to ensure proper coordination and
implementation of the Emergency Response Sub-projects.
- 19-
8. 
"Displaced Person" includes a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
Protected Areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person;
and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.
9. 
"DSWD" 
means 
the 
Borrower's 
Department 
of Social 
Welfare 
and
Development, and any successor thereto.
10. 
"Eligible Crisis or Emergency" means an event that has caused, or is likely to
imminently cause, a major adverse economic and/or social impact to the
Borrower, associated with a natural or man-made crisis or disaster.
11. 
"Emergency Expenditure" means any of the eligible expenditures set forth in the
Disaster Response Operations Sub-manual in accordance with the provisions of
Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and required for Emergency Sub-
projects.
12. 
"Emergency Sub-project" means a specific community development activity or
activities to be carried out in the event of an Eligible Crisis or Emergency under
Part I (a) of the Project.
13. 
"Engineer's Estimate" means the cost estimate that the design engineer has
calculated for a particular infrastructure or work project.
14. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" and the acronym "ESMF"
each means the framework document duly adopted by the Borrower and
publically disclosed on May 21, 2013, which sets forth arrangements and
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, to assess, mitigate, manage and monitor the
environmental and social impacts of the Project, and which includes the
Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework and the Land Acquisition, Resettlement
and Rehabilitation Policy Framework.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
16. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural groups
which possess the following characteristics in varying degrees: (a) self-
identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and recognition
of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the project area and to the natural resources in
- 20 -
these habitats and territories (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and
(d) an indigenous language, often different from the official language of the
country or region; and including groups that have lost collective attachment to
geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories because of forced
severance.
17. 
"Indigenous 
Peoples Policy Framework" means the framework document
included in the ESMF, which sets forth the arrangements and procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, to address any social or cultural impact on Indigenous
Peoples caused by the execution of the Project, including screening and
monitoring procedures and the development of Indigenous Peoples development
plan or plans, where applicable.
18. 
"KALAHI-CIDSS" means Kapitbisig Laban sa Kahirapan - Comprehensive and
Integrated Delivery of Social Services, which is the Borrower's on-going
program of support to the poorest Barangays, established by Executive Order 443
of 1997, for the carrying out of community-based projects.
19. 
"Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy Framework" means
the framework document included in the ESMF, which sets forth the principles
and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, governing land or other asset
acquisition from, resettlement and rehabilitation of, and compensation to
Displaced Persons, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure
compliance with said principles and procedures.
20. 
"Limited Source Bidding" means a method of procurement of goods and
consultants' services that involves direct invitation to bid by the procuring entity
form a list of pre-selected suppliers or consultant with known experience and
proven capability on the requirement of the particular contact as provided for in
Section 49.1 of the Borrower's Implementing Rules and Regulations of
Government Procurement Reform Act (GRPA), Republic Act No. 9184.
21. 
"Local Government Units" and "LGUs" mean the political subdivisions of the
Borrower at the provincial, city, municipal or Barangay level; and "LGU" means
any one of such LGUs.
22. 
"Municipalities" means LGUs several of which constitute a Province and which
are made up of several Barangays.
23. 
"National Steering Committee" means the committee to be maintained by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 1.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-21 -
24. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable and documented expenditures incurred
by DSWD for hiring of contractual personnel (but excluding staff salaries);
travel; materials and supplies; and advocacy activities, for purposes of
implementing the Project and which expenditures would not have been incurred
absent the Project.
25. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
26. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 16, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
27. 
"Project Financing Plan" means each annual financing plan, together with the
related budget, for the Project approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Project Municipalities" means the Municipalities listed in the Annex to the
Operations Manual entitled "Project Municipalities", as such list may be revised
up with the written approval of the Bank.
29. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section
I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such manual may be revised from time to
time with the written approval of the Bank, containing detailed arrangements and
procedures for institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project,
including 
Project 
budgeting, 
disbursement 
and 
financial 
management,
procurement, environmental and social management, monitoring, evaluation,
reporting 
and 
communication, 
eligibility 
criteria 
and 
implementation
arrangements for Subprojects, and such other administrative, financial, technical
and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the
Project.
30. 
"Protected Areas" means environmentally sensitive areas protected by the
Borrower's Law No. RA No 7586 as such law may be revised from time to time.
31. 
"Regions" means the fourteen (14) regions in the territory of the Borrower
without executive powers (with the exception of the Autonomous Region in
Muslim Mindanao), that serve primarily to organize the Provinces for
administrative convenience.
- 22 -
32. 
"Sub-grant" means a grant made available by the Borrower to finance the
reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for a Sub-project under
Part I of the Project; and "Sub-grants" means more than one Sub-grant.
33. 
"Sub-project" means a specific community development activity or activities
which has or have been selected to receive a Sub-grant under Part I (a) of the
Project.
34. 
"Sub-project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the relevant Beneficiary and the Borrower, through DSWD,
pursuant to Section L.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of
implementing Sub-projects.
35. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of goods and services required for the
participation of personnel involved in training activities, workshops or study
tours under the Project, including travel and subsistence costs for training,
workshop and study tour participants, costs associated with securing the services
of trainers, rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and
reproduction of training and workshop materials, and other costs directly related
to training course, workshop or study tour preparation and implementation, but
excluding salaries of consultants.
