OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8454-CO
Loan Agreement
(First Programmatic Sustained Growth and Income Convergence
Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 3 ece," 
/ J 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 2)eceme. IS, 
2014, 
entered 
into between 
REPUBLIC 
OF
COLOMBIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred million Dollars
(700,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June I and December I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange. views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
-2-
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on June 10, 2016.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
-3-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 Bogota D.C Piso 30
E-Mail: Desmin@minhacienda.gov.co
Facsimile: (571) 350 9344
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
2 
J
e 
o~
e 
or 
aa 
a 
-
0 
-s 
s
F 
e 
-
e
~ L9
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section 1. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower has increased the individual credit limit of credit institutions to
invest in projects under the 4G Concession Program, as evidenced by the
Borrower's Decree No. 816, dated April 28, 2014, and published in the Official
Gazette on April 28, 2014.
2. 
The Borrower has authorized the use of movable assets as collateral in financial
operations to improve access to credit, as evidenced by the Borrower's Law
No.1676, dated August 20, 2013, and published in the Official Gazette on August
20, 2013; and the Borrower's Decree No. 400, dated February 24, 2014, and
published in the Official Gazette on February 24, 2014.
3. 
The Borrower has expanded access to capital markets to a more diversified group
of issuers and investors through: (i) the reform of the alternative issuance scheme
(Segundo Mercado); (ii) the provision of specific guidelines related to the
administration and management of mutual funds; and (iii) the establishment of
stronger custody schemes for securities markets, as evidenced by the Borrower's
Decree No. 1019, dated May 28, 2014, and published in the Official Gazette on
May 29, 2014; the Borrower's Decree No. 1242, dated June 14, 2013 and
published in the Official Gazette on June 14, 2013; and the Borrower's Decree
No. 1243, dated June 14, 2013 and published in the Official Gazette on June 14,
2013.
4. 
The Borrower has created the Public Employment Service (PES) within its
Ministry of Labor, including an upgraded unified national registry for
unemployment and a system to match workers and vacancies, as evidenced by
the Borrower's Law No. 1636, dated June 18, 2013, and published in the Official
Gazette on June 18, 2013; the Borrower's Decree No. 2521, dated November 15,
2013, and published in the Official Gazette on November 
15, 2013; the
Borrower's Decree No. 2852, dated December 6, 2013, and published in the
Official Gazette on December 6, 2013; and the Borrower's Decree No. 722,
dated April 15, 2013, and published in the Official Gazette on April 15, 2014.
-6-
5. 
The Borrower has strengthened professional training and skill formation by: (i)
developing training courses for unemployed individuals that match labor market
needs; and (ii) expanding the provision of training services through the
authorization of non-profit entities as training providers, as evidenced by the
Borrower's Decree No. 681, dated April 4, 2014, and published in the Official
Gazette on April 4, 2014; and the Borrower's Decree No. 2852, dated December
6, 2013, and published in the Official Gazette on December 6, 2013.
6. 
The Borrower has strengthened its system of tax credits for innovation, science
and technology by: (i) defining the roles and responsibilities of its National
Council of Tax Credits for Innovation; and (ii) clearly identifying expenditure
eligible for tax credits as well as mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation of
tax credit resources, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 121, dated
January 28, 2014, and published in the Official Gazette on January 28, 2014; and
the Borrower's Agreement (Acuerdo) No. 09, approved on July 31, 2014.
7. 
The Borrower has established a procedure for the drafting of regulations, in line
with OECD best practices, which reduces potential distortions and inefficiencies
from regulatory reforms, as evidenced by the Borrower's CONPES document
No. 3816, dated October 2, 2014.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
700,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
700,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
-7-
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
I. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless
the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the
Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic
policy framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2017.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on December
1,2034.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"4G Concession Program" means the Borrower's concessions road program that
seeks to reduce the gap in infrastructure and consolidate the national road
network through continuous connectivity between the centers of production and
consumption, with the major port areas and border areas of the Borrower's
territory, as detailed in CONPES No. 3760, dated August 20, 2013.
2. 
"CONPES" means Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social, the
Borrower's National Council for Economic and Social Policy.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
- 10o-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"OECD" means Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
6. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial.
7. 
"Public Employment Service (PES)" means the Borrower's public employment
service created to achieve the best possible organization of the labor market,
which will help workers to find good jobs and employers to contract appropriate
workers that meet firm needs.
8. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i)
improve the access to financial markets for road infrastructure investments and
firms; (ii) improve training, build productive skills and improve its allocation;
and (iii) strengthen regulations that affect innovation and business efficiency, as
means to support sustained growth and income convergence, and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated November 7, 2014, from the Borrower to the Bank,
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
9. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
-ll-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
- 12-
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans, Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to
the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
- 13 -
13. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if
any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in the renumbered paragraph 76 (originally paragraph
75) of the Appendix is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"76. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
- 14-
