OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8401-AL
Loan Agreement
(Environmental Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
a 
25 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8401-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
7 
2 
t 
, 2014, between the
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven million three hundred
thousand Euro (C7,300,000) ("Loan"), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing of Parts 1(a), 2(c)
and Part 4 (a) of the Project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March land September 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOE, with the assistance of
ARDAM, for purposes of Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower has prepared and adopted a Project Operations Manual
satisfactory to the Bank.
-2-
(b) 
The Borrower has hired a procurement specialist and a financial
management specialist with qualifications, experience and under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) 
The Co-financing Agreements have been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister for Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
No. 3 Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Facsimile:
355 42228494
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Tirana, Republic of Albania, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
By
Authorized
Representative
Name: 
bHiKCL0lr1 -
Cfyt
Title: 
r4it.51/,g 
Or 
QvN CE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized
Representative
Name: 
kN+SE&U 041E4 
b
Title:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support sustainable land management practices
and increase communities' monetary and non-monetary benefits, in targeted Project areas
which are mainly in erosion prone rural upland areas.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Strengthening Institutional Capacity to Improve Environmental Services from
Integrated Landscape Management
(a) 
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity for governance of forests and
pastures including:
(i) 
preparing a change detection National Forest Inventory to
provide information on how forest cover and volume have
changed over an agreed intervening period;
(ii) 
developing a ten year rolling National Forest Inventory whereby
plots sampled for forest cover and volume are examined on
annual basis for a duration of ten years;
(iii) 
supporting forest management planning in the state managed
production forests excluding the protected areas;
(iv) 
establishing the Albanian Forest Information System;
(v) 
strengthening the capacity of the Regional Forest Directorate to
carry out its obligations including the independent monitoring of
the forests; and
(vi) 
registering forests and pastures transferred 
by the central
government to the communes.
(b) 
Carrying out activities to empower beneficiaries, including Local
Government Units (LGUs), CFPUAs and farmers, to practice sustainable land and
pasture management practices including:
(i) 
implementing the Gender Action Plan to promote gender equity
in natural resource management;
(ii) 
supporting LAGs to contribute to the rural development
strategy;
-5-
(iii) 
training LGUs and CFPUAs on sustainable use of forests,
pastures and agricultural lands; and;
(iv) 
promoting rural income generation, through analysis of values
chains and preparation of short and medium-term forest products
processing and marketing plans.
Part 2. Planning and Provision of Grants to Improve Land Management
(a) 
Carrying out activities to prepare and implement CMCPs to improve land
management, including:
(i) 
developing guidelines for the preparation of CMCPs to promote
integrated use of natural resources;
(ii) 
preparing CMCPs for new communes; and
(iii) 
upgrading existing CFPMPs which will expire during the life of
the Project into CMCPs.
(b) 
Providing Grants to eligible Beneficiaries to carry out Subprojects.
(c) 
Strengthening the capacity of staff for the Regional Forest Directorates,
District Forest Office, ARDA and bodies involved in the agricultural and forests
extension services as well as applicants to carry out their responsibilities under the
Project. .
Part 3: Introducing Payment for Environmental Services
Establishing financing mechanisms for reducing land degradation and supporting
sustainable livelihoods including:
(a) 
preparing technical studies for the development of carbon projects and
establishing 
monitoring, reporting and 
verification 
systems to quantify 
carbon
sequestered by Project activities;
(b) 
developing mechanisms for Payment for Watershed Services to ensure
that those who benefit from environmental services pay those who generate these
services; and a model for linking land use practices with the generation of ecosystem
services; and
(c) 
piloting the Payment for Watershed Services mechanism in selected
areas.
-6-
Part 4: Supporting Project Implementation
(a) 
Carrying out activities for Project implementation, including supplying
of office equipment, building staff capacity, and the implementation of the environmental
safeguards.
(b) 
Supplying and installing a Project monitoring information system to
promote effective tracking of project activities; and carrying out surveys, conducting
environmental audits and monitoring and evaluation.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Management Team
The Borrower shall implement the Project, through MOE, and not later than
September 30, 2014, establish within MOE and thereafter, operate and maintain at all
times during the implementation of the Project, a Project Management Team including a
Project coordinator, all with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank,
including ensuring prompt and efficient overall coordination, day-to-day implementation
of, and communication relating to Project activities and results.
2. 
Project Steering Committee
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2014, establish and
thereafter maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project, a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) 
with composition, mandate, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the PSC shall be
chaired by MOE and include the Project Director, representatives of MOE, MARDWA
Managing 
Authority, NEA, 
IPRO, ARDA, MOF, Department of Development
Programming, Financing and Foreign Aid, Council of Ministers, one mayor of a
commune and the National Federation of FPUAs.
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause the PSC to meet at least biannually and shall
be responsible for providing Project implementation oversight, including, inter alia: (i)
providing strategic and policy guidance; (ii) facilitating coordination of Project activities,
and making recommendations for removal of any obstacles to the implementation of the
Project; and (iii) reviewing progress made towards achieving the Project's objective.
3. 
Proiect Technical Committee
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2014, establish and
thereafter maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project, a Project
Technical Committee (PTC) chaired by the Project Director and comprising a Project
Coordinator, component coordinators and technical staff from MOE and other agencies
involved in project implementation; with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank, including: (i) providing quality assurance on technical aspects of the Project; (ii)
-8-
approving the proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget for onward transmission to the
Bank; and (iii) overseeing Project implementation.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) the Borrower
shall cause the PTC to meet at least once every two months.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
I. 
Proiect Operations Manual
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Operational
Manual; and
(b) 
the Project Operational Manual or any part thereof is not amended,
waived, suspended or abrogated without the Bank's prior written concurrence, and in
case of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Project Operational Manual and
those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
Subprojects
In implementing Part 2 (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
Beneficiaries selected to receive the Grants are selected in accordance
with criteria set forth in the Grants Operations Manual.
(b) 
Subprojects are selected, appraised, evaluated and implemented 
in
accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in
the Grants Operations Manual; including, the requirements that:
(i) 
selected Subproject should implement a CFMP or CMCMPs, or
improve land use management practices; or provide target
communities 
and 
farmers 
with 
alternative 
livelihood
opportunities and income;
(ii) 
be technically feasible, economically and financially viable; and
(iii) 
will not involve involuntary resettlement.
(c) 
The Borrower shall make each Grant under a Grant Agreement with the
respective Beneficiary, on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall
include the following:
-9-
(1) 
the Grant shall be denominated in ALL; and
(2) 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests
and those of the Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or
terminate the right of the Grant Recipient to use the proceeds of
the Grant or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of
the Grant then withdrawn, upon the Grant Recipient's failure to
perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement; and
(ii) require each Grant Recipient to: (A) carry out its Subproject
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial and environmental
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance 
with 
the 
provisions 
of the 
Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than
the Borrower; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources
required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and
services to be financed out of the Grant in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement; (D) 
maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress
of the Subproject and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1)
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Subproject; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have
such financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish
the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (F)
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Subproject, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing.
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Grant Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan; and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget
1. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than December I of
each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project, a work plan and budget
- 10-
containing all activities proposed to be included in the Project during the following Fiscal
Year and a proposed financing plan for expenditures required for such activities, setting
forth the proposed amounts and sources of financing therefor.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on each such proposed work plan and budget and shall thereafter,
ensure that the Project is implemented with due diligence during said following Fiscal
Year, in accordance with such work plan and budget as shall have been approved by the
Bank ("Annual Work Plan and Budget").
3. 
The Borrower shall not make or allow to be made any change to the approved
Annual Work Plan and Budget without prior approval in writing by the Bank.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
EMF. To that end, if any activities included in a proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget
would, pursuant to the EMF, require the preparation of an EMP, the Borrower shall
ensure that no such activities shall be implemented, unless and until, an EMP for such
activities has been: (i) prepared, in accordance with the EMF and furnished to the Bank
as part of the Annual Work Plan and Budget; (ii) disclosed locally as required by the
EMF; and (iii) approved by the Bank and publicly disclosed.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of six months, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.
- II -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five days after the end of each
calendar quarter interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section Ill. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11 and Ill of the Procurement
Guidelines, or Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be
used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts
- 12-
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions contained in paragraph 3 of this Section; (b) Shopping; and (c)
Direct Contracting.
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower's National Competitive Bidding Procedures.
The National Competitive Bidding procedures ("NCB") shall be based on the Open
Tendering procedures as defined in the Public Procurement Law ("PPL") of Albania
(Law No. 9643 dated November 20, 2006, as amended), provided, however, that such
procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Procurement Guidelines and the following additional provisions:
(a) 
"Open Tendering" procedures as defined in the PPL of Albania shall
apply to all contracts financed by the Bank.
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process.
Government-owned enterprises in Albania shall be permitted to bid only
if they are legally and financially autonomous and operate under
commercial law of the Borrower. Registration shall not be used to assess
bidders' qualifications.
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the
deadline for submission of bids in the presence of the representatives
who choose to attend.
(d) 
The procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents as approved
by the Bank.
(e) 
In case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all bids
shall not be rejected without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
(f) 
A single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids.
(g) 
Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated
bidder; no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on
qualification grounds.
(h) 
Bidders in the form of a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally
liable.
(i) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the prior concurrence of
the Bank shall be obtained.
- 13 -
(j) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in
accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria.
(k) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
or any other bidders.
(1) 
Contracts of long duration (more than 
18 months) shall contain
appropriate price adjustment provisions.
(m) 
Bid and contract guarantees shall be in the format included in the bidding
documents. The bid guarantee shall be valid for twenty-eight days (28)
beyond the original validity period of the bid, or beyond any period of
extension if requested. No advance payments shall be made without a
suitable advance payment guarantee.
(n) 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the Bank
shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in
the Procurement Guidelines.
(o) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that
bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the
Bank to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them audited
by auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede
the exercise of the Bank's inspection and audit rights provided for in the
Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in
the Procurement Guidelines.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d)
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting
firms; (f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.
- 14-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in EUR) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods 
and 
non- 
4,679,850 
100%
consulting services under
Part 1(a), 2(c) and Part 4
(a) of the Project
(2) Subprojects under Part 
2,601,900 
100%
2(b) of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
18,250 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
Z19=
- 15 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) 
under Category 2 of the Project, unless and until, the Borrower has: (i)
prepared and submitted a Grants Operations Manual satisfactory to the
Bank; and (ii) adapted the ARDA grants management software for use in
the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2019.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date[, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March I and September 1
Beginning September 1, 2021 
3.85%
through September 1, 2033
On March 1, 2034 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 17-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.
18-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Albania 
Forest 
Information 
System" 
means 
an information 
technology
framework designed to obtain data or information on forests and pastures to
facilitate analysis and reporting on integrated forest management.
2. 
"ALL" means the Borrower's currency also referred to as the Albanian LEK.
3. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the work plan and budget prepared
annually by the Borrower and approved by the Bank in accordance with Section
C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Annual Work Plans and Budgets"
means more than one Annual Work Plan and Budget.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"ARDA" means the Borrower's Agency for Rural Development and Agriculture,
established and operating pursuant to the Law on Agriculture and Rural
Development, No. 9817, dated October 22, 2007 or its legal successor thereto.
6. 
"Beneficiary" means a recipient eligible to receive a Grant under Part 2 (b) of the
Project, based on selection criteria set forth in the Grants Operations Manual.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
8. 
"Co-financiers" 
means the Swedish 
International Development Cooperation
Agency (Sida) or the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) and "Co-financier"
means each one of them.
9. 
"Co-financing Agreements" means the GEF Grant Agreement and the Sida Co-
financing Agreement.
10. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of two million eight hundred and eighty thousand
United States Dollars ($2,880,000) to be provided by the GEF; and (b) sixty five
million Swedish Kroner (SEK 65,000,000) to be provided by Sida, to assist in the
financing of the Project.
- 19-
I. 
"Communal Forest and Pasture Management Plans" or "CFPMPs" means a
management tool developed by the communities outlining the communities'
short, medium and long term measures for the management of forests and pasture
lands for at least 10 years.
12. 
"Communal Forest and Pastures Users Associations" or "CFPUAs" means non-
governmental organizations comprising members of communities that use forests
and pastures resources within an area of a rural local government unit.
13. 
"Communal Micro-Catchment Management Plans" or "CMCMPs" means a
management tool developed by communities which outlines the short, medium
and long term measures for the management of forests, pastures and agricultural
lands for at least 10 years.
14. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
15. 
"Council of Ministers" means the Borrower's executive branch of government
chaired by the Prime Minister.
16. 
"Department of Development Programming Financing and Foreign Aid" means
the department in the Prime Minister's office established and operating pursuant
to the Prime Minister Order No. 204, dated November 1, 2013.
17. 
"District Forest Office" means the Borrower's offices at the district level
responsible for forest and pasture management.
18. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the framework
prepared by the Borrower dated and disclosed on January 23, 2014, setting forth
the modalities for environmental screening and procedures for the preparation
and implementation of environmental management plans under the Project, and
such term includes all schedules and annexes to the EMF.
19. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means, with respect to each
activity under the Project pursuant to which the EMF requires an environmental
management plan, such plan prepared in accordance with the provisions of
Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "EMPs" means more than one
EMP.
- 20 -
20. 
"GEF Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF), providing a grant to the Borrower to assist in
financing Parts I (a), 2(a) and 3 of the Project, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time. "GEF Grant Agreement" includes all appendices,
schedules and agreements supplemental to the GEF Grant Agreement.
21. 
"Gender Action Plan" means a plan developed by the Borrower dated November
7, 2013, to strengthen the participation of women in all project activities and
constituting part of the Project monitoring and evaluation system.
22. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012."
23. 
"Grant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 1.B.2(c) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Grant Operational Manual", means the manual to be prepared and adopted by
the Borrower pursuant to Section I V. B.1 (b) (i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of
the Bank.
25. 
"Grant" means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary to
carry out a Subproject in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in
the Grants Operations Manual..
26. 
"IPRO" 
means the Borrower's 
Immovable Property 
Registration Office
established pursuant to the Law on Immovable Property Registration No. 33/
2012; or its legal successor thereto.
27. 
"Local Action Group" or "LAG" means a partnership between the public, private
and civil society at a regional level to develop a rural area.
28. 
"MARDWA Managing Authority" means the Rural Development Department in
the MARDWA.
29. 
"MARDWA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture Rural Development
and Water Administration, or its legal successor thereto.
30. 
"MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment or its legal successor
thereto.
-21 -
31. 
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or its legal successor thereto.
32. 
"National Federation of FPUAs" means a national non-profit organization which
represents the interests of forests and pastures users in the Borrower's territory.
33. 
"National Forest Inventory" or "NFl" means a compilation of data on forests,
derived from information provided by satellite imagery, with the aim of creating
a national level assessment on how the forest cover and volume have changed
over a certain period.
34. 
"NEA" means the Borrower's National Agency of Environment established
pursuant to the Council of Ministers' Decision No. 47, January 29, 2014, on the
Organization and Functioning of the National Environmental Agency and
Regional Environmental Agencies; or its legal successor thereto.
35. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses arising under the
Project, and consisting of expenditures for equipment for MOE and ARDA staff
associated with the implementation of Project activities, costs for office
maintenance, per diems for civil servants. (excluding the salaries of government
civil 
servants), 
furniture, 
materials 
and 
supplies, 
communication 
costs,
advertising and fuel costs for field visits.
36. 
"Payment for Environmental Services" means a payment offered to individuals
or groups in exchange for sustainable land use or practices
37. 
"Payment for Watershed Services" means a payment offered to individuals or
groups in exchange for sustainable use of watersheds.
38. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
39. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 29, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
40. 
"Project Management Team" means the Borrower's team comprising the MOE
assigned staff, Project coordinator, procurement specialist, financial management
specialist and other staff to be recruited for the Project pursuant to Section I.A.1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
- 22 -
41. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual prepared in accordance with
Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and confirmed to be satisfactory by
the Bank, and adopted by the Borrower, describing and setting forth procedures
for implementation of the Project and institutional arrangements, consistent with
the provisions of this Agreement and with applicable laws and regulations and
including the respective roles and responsibilities of the actors involved in the
implementation of the Project.
42. 
"Regional Forest Directorate" means a government unit within MOE responsible
for forest and pasture management and extension services at the regional level,
established and operating pursuant to the Law on Forestry and Forestry Service
No. 9385, dated May 4, 2005, or its legal successor thereto.
43. 
"Sida Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Bank, providing a grant in the amount of sixty five million
Swedish Krona (SEK 65,000,000) to the Bank to assist in financing the Project;
as such agreement may be amended from time to time. "Sida Co-financing
Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Sida Co-financing Agreement.
44. 
"Subproject" means a subproject selected and approved by the Borrower to be
financed by a Grant in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the
Grants Operations Manual.
- 23 -
