~OOCUMENTI
LOAN NUMBER 8321-CN
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Modern Agriculture Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A-, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8321-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
./ 
.J±* 
2 
.. , 2014, between the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agireement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement] ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency, (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as -defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out Parts 3(a), (d) and (e) ahd Part 4 of the Project through SOCAD
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and cause each
Project Implementing Entity to each carry out its Respective Parts of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and.the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
-
a 
V
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
-4
-4-.
SCHEDULE 1- Project Description
The objective of the Project is to develop sustainable and climate resilient agricultural
production systems in selected areas of Gansu, Hunan, Jiangxi, and Liaoning Provinces, Xinjiang
Uygur Autonomous Region and Chongqing Municipality.
The Project consists of the following-parts:
Part 1: Irrigated Agriculture Infrastructure Improvement
(a) 
Improvement of farmland irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
(b) 
Development of high-efficiency irrigation systems.
(c) 
Water monitoring, measurement, and management, including: (i) construction
and installation of water measurement structures and facilities; (ii) monitoring of
groundwater pumped for irrigation; (iii) preparation and implementation of
groundwater management plans for selected counties; and (iv) piloting crop
evapo-transpiration monitoring in selected counties.l
(d) 
Rehabilitation of farm access roads and on-farm rural power transmission lines.
Part 2: Enhanced Climate-Smart Agricultural Practices
(a) 
Carrying out, or promotion, of soil conservation and improved land management
practices including, but not limited to: (i) land leveling, improved tillage
practices, use of crop residues; (ii) improved soil fertility management through,
among other things, soil testing, precise/formula fertilizer application, application
of organic fertilizers and soil fertility monitoring; and (iii) development of multi-
purpose agro ecological activities such as shelterbelts, greenbelts and
windbreaks, and environmental monitoring.
(b) 
Promotion of climate-adaptation oriented agronomic techniques including: (i)
integrated pest management; (ii) green. and non-polluting products and
production systems; (iii) farm-based demonstrations and extension of improved
varieties and technologies, construction of green/plastic houses; and (iv) carrying
out applied research on various measures related to adaptation to climate change
in agriculture.
Part 3: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
Enhancing the capacity of farmers, farmer organizations, and institutions at various levels
for conducting and promoting sustainable and climate resilient agriculture through:
(a) 
development and transfer of knowledge through training, 
study trips, and
information dissemination and communication on climate smart agriculture to a
wide range of stakeholders;
-5-
(b) 
Provision of sub-grants to support the establishment and strengthening of Water
Users' Associations and Farmer Associations to enhance their respective roles in
improved water management and organized services delivery for climate change
resilience;
(c) 
promotion and support to Fanner Cooperatives to enhance collective action for
services delivery, access to markets, and farmers based adaptation to climate
change;
(d) 
Project management capacity building for staff of the Project Management
Offices including provision of office equipment, training materials, and vehicles;
and
(e) 
provision of technical assistance through Mobile Expert Teams, and of relevant.
equipment to farmers, farmer organizations and institutions engaged in Project
activities in order to give them specialist and multidisciplinary expertise on
various features of climate resilient agriculture.
Part 4: Project Management Support
Provision of support to the Project Implementing Entities in Project management,
implementation, and supervision, and in the monitoring and evaluation of Project
progress and results through, among other things:
(a) 
support for Project surveys, design, and construction supervision;
(b) 
establishment and maintenance of a computerized management information
system to monitor physical and financial progress; and
(c) 
recruitment and supervision of related consultancies.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2 - Project Execution
Section L 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of Project implementation, a national
Project management office within SOCAD and Project management offices within each
Project Implementing Entity, all with terms of reference, powers, functions, and other
resources satisfactory to the Bank, including competent staff in adequate numbers, for the
purposes of implementation of the Borrower's Respective Parts of the Project and overall
Project coordination, management support, monitoring and reporting including:
(a) 
reviewing and consolidating annual work plans and budgets;
(b) 
ensuring adherence to agreed standards, guidelines, and procedures including
ensuring, and reporting to the Bank on, compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments;
(c) 
providing overall guidance on operational aspects to the various implementing
units; and
(d) 
facilitating intra-knowledge transfer among the Project Implementing Entities
and with external domestic and international agencies.
B. 
Financing Arrangements
1 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project Implementing Entities' Parts of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available part of the proceeds of the Loan to each Project
Implementing Entity on a grant basis under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of its Respective Parts of the Project; and (c) maintain all relevant
records and documents related to the Loan and its Respective Parts of the Project and
provide promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as may be
requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
C. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through SOCAD, shall:
(a) 
carry out, and ensure that the Project Implementing Entities carry out, the Project
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank; and
-7-
(b) 
not amend, suspend, or waive the said plan or any part thereof without the prior
written agreement of the Bank. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Project Implementation Plan and this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower, through SOCAD, shall:
(a) 
promptly review the annual work plans furnished to it by the Project
Implementing Entities each year pursuant to Section I, Part B.2 of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, and on the basis of said review, prepare, in accordance
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than
November 30 in each calendar year, beginning on November 30, 2014 for the
following year: (i) a consolidated draft work plan, including a work program,
procurement plan and budget, including adequate counterpart funding allocation,
for each activity to be financed under the Project; and (ii) a consolidated plan for
Project supervision;
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entities on said work plans and any proposed
revisions by the Borrower; and
(c) 
thereafter, taking into account the Bank's comments, finalize and provide to the
Bank said annual work plan for the following calendar year satisfactory to the
Bank.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the
Safeguards Instruments and shall take, and cause the Project Implementing Entities to
take, all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entities to comply with, the provisions of Section I.E of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under Section II, of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile,
and submit to the Bank as part of the annual reports referred to in this Schedule 2, Section
II, Paragraph A.2 (b), a report on the status of compliance with the Safeguard Instruments
and giving details of:
(a) 
the measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfered or threaten to interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
-8-
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions
and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Project
Implementation Plan.
2. 
For the purposes of the preceding paragraph and Section 5.08 (b) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall prepare the following reports:
(a) 
semi-annual reports, to be furnished to the Bank not later than March 15 and
September 15 in each calendar year, beginning on September 15, 2014,
summarizing the progress of its Respective Parts of the Project and consolidating
the semi-annual reports furnished to it by the Project Implementing Entities
pursuant to Section 11, Paragraph A.2 (a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement;
(b) 
annual reports, to be furnished to the Bank not later than March 31 in each
calendar year, commencing March 31, 2015, presenting the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it in respect of the preceding
calendar year, based on the agreed monitoring indicators; and the results of social
and environmental 
safeguards monitoring, soil fertility monitoring, and
groundwater monitoring by the Project Implementing Entities, and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and to
further the objectives thereof during the then current calendar year; and
(c) 
a mid-term report, to be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2016
or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree: (i) summarizing the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities (including the Project progress
and lessons learned) carried out since the inception of the Project; (ii)
consolidating the mid-term reports furnished to it by each Project Implementing
Entity pursuant to Section II. Paragraph A.2 (b) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; and (iii) setting out the measures recommended to ensure efficient
Project iniplementation so as to achieve the objectives of the Project during the
period following the date of such report.
3. 
After furnishing each said report, review, and cause the Project Implementing Entities to
review, the same with the Bank, and thereafter, promptly take, and cause the Project
Implementing Entities to take, all measures in relation thereto as shall have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank.
-9-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, and ensure that each Project
Implementing Entity shall maintain or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, not later than sixty (60) days after
the end of each calendar semester, consolidated interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited and cause each Project
Implementing Entity to have its Financial Statements audited, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period. The Borrower shall make, and cause each Project
Implementing Entity to make, the audited Financial Statements publicly available in a
timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-10-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works:
(a) Chongqing 
22,860,000 
70%
(b) Gansu 
24,610,000 
86%
(c) Hunan 
24,390,000 
81%
(d) Jiangxi 
27,780,000 
81%
(e) Liaoning 
19,340,000 
95%
(f) Xinjiang 
27,930,000 
85%
(2) 
Goods, non consulting 
32,230,000 
100%
services, consultants' services
and Training for PMOs
(3) Other consultants' services 
18,540,000 
70%
and Training
(4) Sub-grants 
1,820,000 
100/
(5) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(6) 
Interest Rate 
Cap 
or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
'. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate, amount not to exceed $12,860,000 equivalent may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after May 30, 2013 for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3 - Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2019 
2.5%
Through September 15, 2038
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-12-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-13-
APPENDIX
Section L Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiary" means: (a) a Water Users' Association; or (b) a Farmer Association which
meets the criteria set out in the Project Implementation Plan for financing under Part 3 (b)
of the Project and which has received or will receive a Sub-grant for Establishment Costs.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Chongqing" means the Borrower's Chongqing Municipality, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
6. 
"County Project Management Office" and "CPMO" mean the Project Management
Office to be established and maintained by each Project Implementing Entity at the
county level.
7. 
"Completion Report" means the report to be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank as
provided for in Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions.
8. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
9. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Borrower's plan, satisfactory to the Bank
and publically disclosed in the Borrower's territory on September 6, 2012, setting out an
assessment of environmental impacts of the Project and the environmental protection
measures to be taken to mitigate any adverse effects, as well as the institutional,
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as
the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"Establishment Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by a Beneficiary for its
establishment and operation, including registration fees, and office furniture, supplies,
-14-
and equipment and financed or to be financed by a Sub-grant under Part 3 (b) of the
Project.
11. 
"Ethnic Minorities Development Plan" means the Borrower's plan, satisfactory to the
Bank and publically disclosed in the Borrower's territory on August 27, 2012 setting out
the 
procedures, rules, and guidelines for. (i) the informed involvement of ethnic
minorities, through a process of informed consultation, in the design and implementatioh
of the Respective Parts of the Project of Xinjiang and Liaoning in locations in which such
people reside or which they use for their livelihood; and (ii) designing and implementing
measures or actions to provide benefits which are socially and culturally acceptable to
ethnic minorities, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse impacts of said implementation,
as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the
Bank.
12. 
"Farmer Association" means each of the farmer associations established, or to be
established, and operated in the Project Counties by farmer households as non-profitable
organizations based upon democratic consultations in accordance with the Borrower's
laws for the purpose of carrying out activities under the Project.
13. 
"Farmer Cooperative" means a cooperative established by farmers in accordance with the
relevant laws of the Borrower.
14. 
"Gansu" means the Borrower's Gansu Province, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
16. 
"Jiangxi" means the Borrower's Jiangxi Province, or any successor thereto.
17. 
"Liaoning" means the Borrower's Liaoning Province, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"Mid-Term Report" means the report to be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank as
provided for in Schedule 2, Section II, Paragraph A.2 (c) of this Agreement.
19. 
"MIS" means the computerized management of information system to be established in
the National Project Management Office under Part 4 (b) of the Project for purposes of
the Project.
20. 
"Mobile Expert Team" means each team established or to be established by a Project
Implementing Entity within the Project Management Offices, as applicable, as provided
for in Section 1, Paragraphs A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to, among
other things, provide expert advisory services on technical and institutional matters to
such Project Management Offices, Project Beneficiaries and other Project stakeholders in
order to facilitate Project implementation.
21. 
"National Project Management Office" and "NPMO" mean the office to be maintained
by the Borrower within SOCAD in accordance with Schedule 2, Section I, Paragraphs A.
I to this Agreement for the purposes of: (a) overall Project monitoring, evaluation and
-15-
reporting, including reviewing and consolidating annual work plans and budgets and
ensuring, and reporting to the Bank on, compliance with the Safeguards Instruments; and
(b) implementation of the Borrower's Respective Part of the Project.
22. 
"Pest Management Plans" means, collectively, the pest management plans prepared by
each of the Project Implementing Entities, acceptable to the Bank and publically
disclosed in the respective territories of the Project Implementing Entities on September
5, 2012 which set out measures and procedures to manage pests in an integrated manner,
including selection and application of pesticides whenever necessary, so as to minimize
adverse effects on beneficial organisms, humans and the environment, as said plans may
be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
23. 
"Provincial Project Management Office" and 'TPMO" means the Project Management
Office to be established and maintained by each Project Implementing Entity at the
provincial level or, in the case of Chongqing at municipal level and, in the case of
Xinjiang, at the autonomous region level.
24. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
25. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May
30, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
26. 
"Project Counties" means the counties within. the jurisdiction of the Project
Implementing Entities selected to participate in Project activities, and "Project County"
means any of the Project Counties.
27. 
"Project Dams" means the dams specified in the Project Implementation Plan which
supply or will supply water to the irrigation systems financed or to be financed under the
Project, or whose failure would cause extensive damage to, or failure of, such irrigation
systems.
28. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the consolidated implementation plans of the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities, dated November 4, 2013 setting out,
among other things: (a) the institutional, implementation, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation and reporting arrangements for the Project; (b) implementation guidelines for
various Project activities, including financial management and procurement, and the
Procurement Plan for the first 18 months of the Project; (c) the operational manuals for
the functioning of Farmer Associations and WUAs; (d) guidelines for agricultural support
activities; (e) technical assessment reports for water resources balance and dam safety
including provisions to be followed with regard to dam safety standards and dam
management under the Project, as the same may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank; and (f) the Safeguards Instruments; as such plans
shall be reviewed annually as provided for in Schedule 2, Section 1, Paragraph C.2 of this
-16-
Agreement or otherwise revised from time to time with the prior written consent of the
Bank.
29. 
"Project Implementing Entities" means, collectively, Gansu, Hunan, Jiangxi, Liaoning,
Xinjiang and Chongqing, and "Project Implementing Entity" means any one of the said
Project Implementing Entities.
30. 
"Project Leading Group" means each of the groups to be maintained by each Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with Section I, Paragraph A. 1 (a) of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, for purposes of providing leadership, policy guidance, and
interagency coordination for the implementation of the Project.
31. 
"Project Management Offices" and "PMOs" mean, collectively, the NPMOs, PPMOs and
CPMOs (as herein defined).
32. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's policy framework, satisfactory
to the Bank and publically disclosed in the Borrower's territory on September 27, 2012
which sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement,
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of
resettlement action plans during the implementation of the Project, as said policy
framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said
Resettlement Policy Framework.
33. 
"Respective Parts of the Project" means, in respect of the Borrower, Parts 3 (a), and (e)
and Part 4 of the Project and, in respect of each Project Implementing Entity, the
activities under Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project to be carried out within its respective
territorial jurisdiction.
34. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means the Environmental Management Plan, the Pest
Management Plans, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Ethnic Minorities
Development Plan (all as herein defined).
35. 
"SOCAD" means the State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development within
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and any successor thereto.
36. 
"Sub-grants" means sub-grants made under Part 3 (b) of the Project to Beneficiaries that
meet the criteria specified in the Project Implementation Plan to partially finance the
Establishment Costs of such Beneficiaries.
37. 
"Training" means for purposes of Schedule 2, Section IV to this Agreement, the
reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per diem of trainees attending training, study trips,
workshops and seminars, the cost of organizing workshops, training and seminars, and
the cost of delivering training (excluding consultants fees) such as rental of training space
and training equipment and other logistical costs, all as yearly budgeted and approved by
the Borrower and the Bank.
-17-
38. 
"WUA Operation Manual" means the manual, attached to the Project Implementation
Plan, prepared and adopted by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities to
guide the activities of Water Users' Associations under the Project covering, among other
things: (a) definition and functions of WUAs; (b) general conditions for WUAs; (c) the
benefits WUA could bring to farmers; (d) step by step procedures for WUA formation, in
particular the procedures for electing the WUA executive committee; (e) structure,
formulation and operation of WUAs; (f) rules and regulations of WUAs; (g) rights and
obligations of WUA members; (h) water management, utilization, pricing and water fee
collection; (i) members' participation in and inspection on WUA work; (j) indicative
procedures for implementing participatory irrigation management and in particular the
WUA's involvement in irrigation planning, design, construction, operation and
management; (k) the assistance to be expected from the Project for WUA activities; and
(1) appendices, including samples of a WUA charter, regulations, water supply service
contract, document for handing-over irrigation facilities, and table for transparent water
fee management.
39. 
"WUA" and "Water Users' Association" mean an association established or to be
established and operated in a Project County by farmer households as a non-profit social
organization based upon consultations in accordance with the WUA Operations Manual
(as herein defined) for the purpose of carrying out activities under the Project, including
the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure constructed or improved -under the
Project, as provided for in the Project Implementation Plan.
40. 
"Xinjiang" means the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, or any successor thereto.
-18-
