OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS;
LOAN NUMBER 8407-AZ
Loan Agreement
(Judicial Services and Smart Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8407-AZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2014, between the
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, one hundred million United States Dollars
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Judicial Modernization
Team within the Ministry of Justice in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions.
-2-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of, namely that: (a) the Presidential
Decree No. 268 dated February 13, 2014; and (b) the Ministerial Decree No. 12S
of the Ministry of Justice, dated February 4, 2006, have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of the Judicial Modernization Team and/or the Ministry of Justice to
perform any of their respective obligations in carrying out the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of, namely that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
83 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku AZ1022
Republic of Azerbaijan
Telex: 
Facsimile:
142116 BNKSL 
99412 4044720
99412 4044721
-3-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Y,~A IM ok Yr%^0k 
v
Title: 
5-ke( 
0C\o-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Authorized Representative
Name: L 
r 5O 
C 
\VD
Title: 
-U4-AY- 
"\
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the access, transparency and efficiency
of delivery of selected justice services.
Part A: Judicial Service Delivery Improvements
1 .
Improving access to justice through: (a) piloting innovative, participatory and
more efficient ways to provide legal aid services to the vulnerable and
marginalized through the provision of goods, consultants' services and Training
to the Ministry of Justice; and (b) analytic and diagnostic studies focusing on: (i)
the legal aid system, in particular for vulnerable groups; (ii) the development of
alternative dispute resolution systems; (iii) the policies and institutional
arrangements on access to justice particularly for vulnerable groups and on
gender issues related to justice; and (iv) the development of specific interventions
to support access to justice for the Internally Displaced Persons, refugees and
other vulnerable groups through the provision of consultants' services and
Training.
2. 
Expanding the provision of electronic access to selected justice services through:
(a) the development and rollout of selected justice e-services; 
(b) 
the
improvement of the infrastructure 
for the justice sector information and
communications technology; and (c) the construction of a data center and the
rehabilitation and upgrading of a facility for disaster recovery center, through the
provision of goods, consultants' services and Training and the carrying out of
works.
Part B: Strengthenitig Institutional Capacity, Efficiency and Monitoring and Evaluation
1 .
Improving justice sector performance through, inter alia: (a) a sector efficiency
and expenditure review including analyses of court case backlogs, efficiency,
justice system revenues; 
(b) strengthening justice sector monitoring and
evaluation capacity and quality including through the development of a justice
sector performance monitoring framework and performance indicators and the
preparation of a strategy and action plan to improve such capacity; (c)
strengthening sector capacity to undertake and apply poverty and social impact
analysis to improve service delivery to economically and socially vulnerable
groups such as Internally Displaced Persons; and (d) the carrying out of periodic
surveys of, inter alia, court users, lawyers, judges, court staff, notaries, and other
justice sector service providers all through the provision of goods, consultants'
services and Training.
-5-
2. 
Strengthening the information systems management and operational capability of
the Ministry of Justice to support the provision of selected justice services
through the provision of goods, consultants' services and Training.
3. 
Carrying out communications, outreach and change management activities aimed
at facilitating stakeholder engagement in the justice sector reforms, including but
not limited to: (a) the development and implementation of a communications,
outreach and change management strategy; and (b) the conduct of stakeholder
workshops, roundtables, public awareness campaigns, radio, television and print
media/internet programs, all through the provision of consultants' services and
Training.
4. 
Strengthening the professional capacity of judges, staff of courts and the Ministry
of Justice and the Justice Academy through, inter alia: (a) the preparation of a
justice sector gender strategy and action plan based on an assessment of gender-
based barriers to employment for judges, lawyers and other justice professionals
and an analysis of training and sensitization needs on gender issues for justice
professionals; (b) the development of training courses and curricula and the
delivery of training for judges and other justice professionals aimed at, but not
limited, to improving the quality of judicial decisions in economic and
commercial disputes and in first-instance courts; and (c) the carrying out of
knowledge-sharing 
activities 
between judges 
and 
other justice 
sector
professionals in Azerbaijan and between Azerbaijan and other judiciaries, justice
training institutions and professional networks, through the provision of goods,
consultants' services and Training.
Part C: Expansion and Modernization of Justice Infrastructure
Construction and rehabilitation of about six courthouses and court complexes at
the locations selected in accordance with criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual through the carrying out of works and the provision of goods,
consultants' services and Training.
Part D: Project Management and Coordination
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Justice in Project management,
monitoring and coordination including audits of: (1) Project financial statements,
(2) environmental and social safeguard compliance; and (3) implementation of
information and communications technology activities under the Project, all
through the provision of goods, consultants' 
services, and Training, and
financing of Incremental Operating Costs.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the
Project in the JMT and shall maintain the JMT, at all times during Project
implementation, with resources and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, and
with competent staff in adequate numbers. The Borrower shall ensure that the
JMT shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive any provision of said Manual without the prior written approval
of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through the MOJ, shall retain a chief information and technology
officer within the JMT with responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the MOJ, shall establish by not later than January 1,
2016, and thereafter maintain an information technology department in the MOJ,
with resources and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, and with competent
staff in adequate numbers.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
EMP and RPF, and shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out
of the EMP and RPF shall be taken in a timely manner. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
EMP and/or RPF.
2. 
Prior to the commencement of works for each proposed site, the Borrower shall
ensure that: (a) the related Site-specific EMPs are prepared in accordance with
the EMP; (b) the proposed design and site for said works incorporate the
provisions of Site-specific EMPs; (c) the provisions of said Site-specific EMPs
are adequately included in the proposed contract for said works; and (d) such
works are carried out in accordance with the respective Site-specific EMPs. The
Bank shall conduct a post-review of the documentation related to the design,
-7-
contracts and Site-specific EMPs for selected works and field visits of such
selected works as part of regular Project supervision.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the RAPs: (a) shall be prepared in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the RPF prior to commencement of
any activities for the areas where physical relocation, land acquisition and/or loss
of income due to the Project activities have been identified, and; (b) shall be
carried out in a timely manner, satisfactory to the Bank. In the event that land
acquisition or resettlement is required for the purposes of carrying out activities
under the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
notify the Bank or ensure that the Ministry of Justice notifies the Bank,
of any intended acquisition of land or resettlement, in whole or in part,
and of each Resettlement Action Plan (if any) prepared in accordance
with the Resettlement Policy Framework; of any of the following:
residences, agricultural holdings, commercial structures and businesses,
land used by people without claim to legal title, and persons affected by
Project activities;
(b) 
disclose, or ensure that the Ministry of Justice discloses, the Resettlement
Policy Framework and each Resettlement Action Plan (if any) prepared
under the Project and all relevant information relating thereto in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank no less than sixty (60) days prior to
carrying out any land acquisition or resettlement; and
(c) 
ensure that the Ministry of Justice causes all land acquisition and
resettlement under the Project to be undertaken in accordance with the
provisions and procedures 
contained in the Resettlement Policy
Framework and the respective Resettlement Action Plans, and that all
relevant information is adequately provided to all affected persons, and
potentially affected persons, in a timely and adequate manner.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
report.
-8-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
-9-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional
provisions:
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of
bidder;
(ii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a
shareholding of whatever size shall not be invited to participate
in tenders for the Government unless they are and can be
shown to be legally and financially autonomous and they
operate under commercial law;
(iii) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the
origin of products or labor;
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for
their obligations;
(v) 
no "participation fee" shall be required of bidders for the
purchase of bidding documents. 
The only charge shall be
equivalent to the cost of producing (copying) the bidding
documents;
(vi) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they
differ substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the
procuring entity, except where the bid prices exceed the
available budget;
(vii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the
Bank;
(viii) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months' duration
shall include appropriate price adjustment provisions;
(ix) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any
modification in the contract scope and conditions during
implementation; and
(x) 
standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be
used.
(b) Shopping
-10-
Procurement Method
(c) Procurement under Framework Agreements in accordance with procedures
which have been found acceptable to the Bank
(d) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Selection of UNICEF, UNDP and UNODC; (f) Single-source
Selection of consulting firms; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection
of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
-11-
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(net of VAT)
(1) Goods, works and 
65,734,738 
49%
non-consulting services
for the Project
(2) Consultants' 
31,340,359 
100%
services including
audits, Training and
Incremental Operating
Costs for the Project
(3) Unallocated 
2,674,903
(4) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,00
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this
Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
-12-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
December 15, 2017 
3.09%
June 15, 2018 
3.17%
December 15, 2018 
3.25%
June 15, 2019 
3.33%
December 15, 2019 
3.41%
June 15, 2020 
3.50%
December 15, 2020 
3.58%
June 15, 2021 
3.67%
December 15, 2021 
3.77%
June 15, 2022 
3.86%
December 15, 2022 
3.96%
June 15, 2023 
4.05%
December 15, 2023 
4.16%
June 15, 2024 
4.26%
December 15, 2024 
4.37%
June 15, 2025 
4.48%
December 15, 2025 
4.59%
June 15, 2026 
4.70%
December 15, 2026 
4.82%
June 15, 2027 
4.94%
December 15, 2027 
5.06%
June 15, 2028 
5.19%
December 15, 2028 
5.32%
June 15, 2029 
5.47%
-13-
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-14-
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-15-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" 
or 
"EMP" 
means 
the 
Borrower's
Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to the Bank dated December 3,
2013, which contains the guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments and for the preparation and implementation of Site-specific EMP(s),
as well as the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project,
including chance finding of cultural property and potential direct and indirect
environmental impacts from the carrying out of the Project, recommendation of
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified, as well as measures for
enhancing each identified positive impact, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
6. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means incremental expenses incurred by the MOJ
on account of Project implementation, including bank charges, communications,
office supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance costs, office equipment
maintenance and repair, fuel, publication of procurement and other project-
related notices, printing, translation/interpretation, travel costs and such other
expenditures as may be agreed upon and included in an annual Project budget
agreed with the Bank, but excluding salaries and allowances of officials and
employees of the Borrower.
7. 
"Internally Displaced Persons" means the persons or groups of persons who have
been forced or obliged to flee or to leave their homes or places of habitual
residence, in particular as a result of or in order to avoid the effects of armed
conflict, situations of generalized violence, violations of human rights or natural
or human-made disasters, and who have not crossed an internationally
recognized state border.
-16-
8. 
"JMT" means the Judicial Modernization Team established within the Ministry
of Justice of the Borrower, through the Ministerial Decree No. 12-S, on
February 4, 2006, acting as the coordinator and responsible entity for the
implementation of the Project.
9. 
"Justice Academy" means the Borrower's institution established by virtue of
Presidential Decree No 446, dated August 17, 2006 related to the Development
of Justice Bodies.
10. 
"Ministry of Justice" or "MOJ" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice or any
successor thereto.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 21, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
13. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; 
or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
14. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a site-specific resettlement action
plan satisfactory to the Bank prepared or to be prepared under the Project in
accordance with the RPF describing a program of actions, measures and policies
for compensation of persons, including compensation arrangements, budget and
cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional,
monitoring 
and 
reporting 
arrangements 
capable 
of ensuring 
proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with its terms for each
site.
15. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's policy
framework for Resettlement satisfactory to the Bank dated December 3, 2013,
which contains the procedures and guidelines for the preparation, adoption,
implementation and monitoring of a Resettlement Action Plan, all in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
-17-
16. 
"Site-specific EMP(s)" means the Borrower's site-specific environmental
management plan(s), acceptable to the Bank, prepared or to be prepared by the
Borrower during the Project implementation in accordance with the EMP and
approved by the Bank, describing environmental mitigation, monitoring and
institutional measures for selected road sections under the Project.
17. 
"Training" means expenses incurred by the Borrower in connection with carrying
out training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per diem for
local trainees and trainers, study tours, workshops, conferences, rental of
facilities and equipment and training materials and related supplies.
18. 
"UNICEF" means the United Nations Children's Fund.
19. 
"UNDP" means the United Nations Development Programme.
20. 
"UNODC" means the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.
-18-
