OMOTKAL
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF017509
Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement
(Noor-Ouarza !ate Concentrated Solar Power Plant Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
and
MOROC AN AGENCY FOR SOLAR ENERGY
Dated December 19, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF017509
CLEAN TE, HNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT datc d December 19, 2014, entered into between:
INTERNATIONAL 
BAN C FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("World Bank"), acting no: in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an
implementing entity of tI e Clean Technology Fund ("CTF"), and MOROCCAN
AGENCY FOR SOLAR Eb ERGY ("Borrower").
WHEREAS: (A) Ki agdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having
been satisfied as to the feas,ibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, have reque! ted the World Bank to assist in the financing of Part 1.A and
Part 1.C of the Project;
(B) 
by an agree nent (the CTF Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the World Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the
Loan Payment obligations o f the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
(C) 
by an agree nent of even date herewith (the IBRD Loan Agreement), the
World Bank has agreed to iiake a loan (the IBRD Loan) to the Borrower in the amount
of two hundred thirty-four n illion five hundred thousand Euro (E234,500,000) and eighty
million Dollars ($80,000,00)) to assist in financing of Part LA, Part 1.C and Part 2 of the
Project;
(D) 
by an agretment (IBRD Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the World Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the
Loan payment obligations o 'the Borrower in respect of the IBRD Loan; and
WHEREAS the Wo ld Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
The World Bank an I the Borrower hereby agree as follows:
Article I
5 tandard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Con Jitions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integro I part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the contex 
requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to thi, Agreement.
-2-
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank ag ees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred tc in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred nineteen
million United Stal -s Dollars ($119,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing
Part 1.A and Part I C of the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Sched ile 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defii [ed in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made availabl- to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan p -oceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Management Fe-e payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of
the Standard Condi :ions, on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance shall be equal to
eighteen one hundre Ith of one percent (0.18%) per annum.
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to on -fourths of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January I and July 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amo mt of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Payment Curreicy is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower deckres its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower s tall: (i) cause Part L.A of the Project to be carried out by the
Second Plant Proje:-t Implementing Entity and Part 1.C of the Project to be
carried out by the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity, and shall carry out
Part 1.B and Part 1.:) of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article
II of the Standard Conditions; and (ii) cause the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entit,' and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to provide
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
Part 1.A of the Proj ct and Part 1.C of the Project, respectively.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borr wer and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that tf e Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this / Lgreement.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Eve nts of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Basic Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower t) perform any of its obligations under this Agreement, or to
achieve the objectives of the Project.
(b) 
The Conve itions have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower E nd/or the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and/or
the Third )lant Project Implementing Entity to perform any of their
obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project.
(c) 
Any party o any of the Conventions or any of the agreements referred to
in Section 
IV.B.1.(c)(i)(E), IV.B.1.(c)(i)(H) and IV.B.1.(c)(i)(I), and
Sections I V.B.1.(d)(i)(E), IV.B.L.(d)(i)(H) and 
IV.B.L.(d)(i)(I) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement has: (i) failed to perform any of its
obligations under any of such Conventions or agreements and such
default has affected materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower
and/or the 3econd Plant Project Implementing Entity and/or the Third
Plant Proje t Implementing Entity to perform any of their obligations
under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project; or
(ii) terminated any of the Conventions or any of such agreements and
such termir ation has affected materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower a nd/or the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and/or
the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to perform any of their
obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project.
-4-
4.02. 
The Additional Evei its of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
Any event ;pecified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs.
(b) 
The event s :ecified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the eveni
has been gii en by the World Bank to the Borrower.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Con fition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the IBRD Loan Ag: eement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its eff -ctiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been satisfied ,r waived.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness E eadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreemcnt.
Article VI
Bor rower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Rc presentative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is the Prcsident of its Management Board (Directoire).
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Moroccan Agency f >r Solar Energy
Immeuble Extensior CMR; third floor
Avenue Al Araar
Hay Riad
10014, Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Facsimile:
(212) 537 57 14 75
6.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Bank f )r Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433
-5-
United States of An ierica
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
AGREED at Rabal, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the
Clean Technology Fund
By
Authorized Representa ye
Name: Simon Gray
Title: Country Director
MOROCCAN AGENCY FOR SOLAR ENERGY
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Mustapha Bakkoury
Title: Prdsident du Directoire
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of tht Project is to increase: (a) installed capacity (megawatt); and
(b) electricity output (mel ;awatt-hour), especially during peak hours, of the Noor-
Ouarzazate Solar Complex.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Financing the Initia Investment
A. 
Development of the Second Plant through the formation of a partnership between
the Borrower and a :ompetitively selected partner.
B. 
Construction of the Second Plant Associated Facilities.
C. 
Development of the Third Plant through the formation of a partnership between
the Borrower and a :ompetitively selected partner.
D. 
Construction of the Fhird Plant Associated Facilities.
Part 2: Cost Mitigation Me hanism
A. 
Supporting the acqi isition of kilowatt-hours produced by the First Plant Project
Implementing Entit i to partially cover the difference in the price at which the
Borrower would bu ' the electricity generated by the First Plant and the price at
which the Borrower would sell such electricity to ONEE.
B. 
Supporting the acc uisition of kilowatt-hours produced by the Second Plant
Project Implementir g Entity to partially cover the difference in the price at which
the Borrower woul I buy the electricity generated by the Second Plant and the
price at which the B :rrower would sell such electricity to ONEE.
C. 
Supporting the acqt isition of kilowatt-hours produced by the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entiti to partially cover the difference in the price at which the
Borrower would bu / the electricity generated by the Third Plant and the price at
which the Borrower would sell such electricity to ONEE.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institution; J and Other Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrar gements
1. 
The Borrower sha l cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity,
including as the cas e may be through exercising its voting powers in relation to
the Second Plant Pr )ject Implementing Entity and all powers of control available
in relation to its no ninee to the Supervisory Board of the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entit, to implement Part 1.A of the Project in accordance with the
MASEN Financial Management and Disbursement Manual, the MASEN
Governance 
Framiwork, the 
Second Plant Financial Management 
and
Disbursement Man ual, the Second Plant Governance Framework and all
agreements referre l to in Sections IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall not, and shall cause the
Second Plant Project Implementing Entity not to, amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive: (i' any provision of the MASEN Financial Management and
Disbursement Mani al, the MASEN Governance Framework , the Second Plant
Financial Manager lent and Disbursement Manual, and the Second Plant
Governance Framei iork without prior approval of the World Bank; and (ii) any
provision of any agreement referred to in Sections IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) and
IV.B. 1(c)(i)(I) of S hedule 2 to this Agreement, if such amendment, suspension,
abrogation, repeal cr waiver would affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower and/or the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project. In addition the Borrower shall not, and shall cause the Second Plant
Project Implementir g Entity not to assign their respective rights under any of the
agreements referre l to in Sections IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement without prior approval of the World Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity, including
as the case may be through exercising its voting powers in relation to the Third
Plant Project Implei nenting Entity and all powers of control available in relation
to its nominee to th! Supervisory Board of the Third Plant Project Implementing
Entity, to implemeint Part 1.C of the Project in accordance with the MASEN
Financial Managen ent and Disbursement Manual, the MASEN Governance
Framework, the Th rd Plant Financial Management and Disbursement Manual,
the Third Plant G vernance Framework and all agreements referred to in
Sections IV.B.1(d)()(H) and IV.B.I(d)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
The Borrower shall not, and shall cause the Third Plant Project Implementing
Entity not to, amen(, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive: (i) any provision of the
MASEN Financial Management and Disbursement Manual, the MASEN
-8-
Governance 
Frair ework, 
the 
Third 
Plant 
Financial 
Management 
and
Disbursement Mani ual, and the Third Plant Governance Framework without prior
approval of the World Bank; and (ii) any provision of any agreement referred to
in Sections IV.B.l d)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(d)(i)(1) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
if such amendmer t, suspension, abrogation, repeal or waiver would affect
materially and adv ersely the ability of the Borrower and/or the Third Plant
Project Implement ng Entity to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement, or to a hieve the objectives of the Project. In addition, the Borrower
shall not, and shal cause the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity not to
assign their respect ve rights under any of the agreements referred to in Sections
IV.B.1(d)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(d)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement without prior
approval of the Wo: Id Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall (i) maintain the Project Management Unit at all times during
the implementation of the Project with qualified staff and adequate resources;
and (ii) cause the S,-cond Plant Project Implementing Entity and the Third Plant
Project Implement ing Entity to be maintained at all times during the
implementation of t ie Project with qualified staff and adequate resources.
4. 
The Borrower shal inform the World Bank, and shall cause the Second Plant
Project Implementi ig Entity to inform the Borrower of: (i) any failure by any
party to any of the Conventions and any of the agreements referred to in Sections
IV.B.1(c)(i)(E), 1v.B.1(c)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, to perf(rm any of its obligations under any of such Conventions and
agreements, when s ach default may affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower and/c r the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity to perform
any of their obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project; or (ii) any failure or violation by any such party, to the best of the
Borrower's knowl dge, of any law, regulation, decree, or order that could
reasonably be expected to materially adversely affect the violating party's ability
to perform its obligations under any of the Conventions and any applicable
agreement referred to in 
Sections 
IV.B.1(c)(i)(E), 
IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) 
and
IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of S :hedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall inform the
World Bank, and s iall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity to
inform the Borrower, of any dispute involving any party to any of the
Conventions and ai y of the agreements referred to in Sections IV.B. 1 (c)(i)(E),
IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
regarding any such Conventions and agreements, when such dispute may affect
materially and adv,!rsely the ability of the Borrower and/or the Second Plant
Project Implementi rig Entity to perform any of their obligations under this
Agreement, or to ac iieve the objectives of the Project.
5. 
The Borrower shal inform the World Bank, and shall cause the Third Plant
Project Implementing Entity to inform the Borrower of: (i) any failure by any
party to any of the Conventions and any of the agreements referred to in Sections
-9-
IV.B.1(d)(i)(E), IV.B.1(d)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(d)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, to perfo rm any of its obligations under any of such Conventions and
agreements, when s, ich default may affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower and/oi the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to perform any
of their obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project; or (ii) any failure or violation by any such party, to the best of the
Borrower's knowle ige, of any law, regulation, decree, or order that could
reasonably be expected to materially adversely affect the violating party's ability
to perform its obli Yations under any of the Conventions and any applicable
agreement 
referrec 
to in Sections 
IV.B.1(d)(i)(E), 
IV.B.1(d)(i)(H) 
and
IV.B.1(d)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall inform the
World Bank, and s [all cause the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to
inform the Borrover, of any dispute involving any party to any of the
Conventions and ary of the agreements referred to in Sections IV.B.1(d)(i)(E),
IV.B.1(d)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(d)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
regarding any such Conventions and agreements, when such dispute may affect
materially and adv,.rsely the ability of the Borrower and/or the Third Plant
Project Implementi ig Entity to perform any of their obligations under this
Agreement, or to ac' ieve the objectives of the Project
6. 
Not later than nine -nonths after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall contract
an independent verification expert, satisfactory to the World Bank, under terms
of reference satisfa.tory to the World Bank, to carry out technical audits and
prepare the technicE I audit reports regarding the implementation of Part 1.A and
Part 1.C of the Projc ct, and of the Second Plant EPC Contract and the Third Plant
EPC Contract referr:d to in Section II.B.3 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
B. 
Subsidiary Loan A greements
1. 
To facilitate the ca -ying out of Part 1.A of the Project by the Second Plant
Project Implementir g Entity, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category 1 of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2
of this Schedule anL the proceeds of the AfDB Second Plant Co-financing I, the
AfDB Second Plant Co-financing II, the EIB Second Plant Co-financing, and the
KfW Second Plai t Co-financing available to the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entity as a loan or loans under one or more subsidiary loan
agreements betweet the Borrower and the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the World Bank ("Second Plant
Subsidiary Loan As reements"), including the commitments of the Second Plant
Project Implementii ng Entity set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the
right of the Borrc wer to suspend disbursements under such Second Plant
Subsidiary Loan A Yreements in case of non-compliance by the Second Plant
Project Implementir g Entity.
- 10-
2. 
The Borrower shal exercise its rights and shall cause the Second Plant Project
Implementing Enti y to exercise its rights under the Second Plant Subsidiary
Loan Agreements n such manner as to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Wo: Id Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) not
assign, abrogate or waive any of the Second Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements
or any of their respective provisions; and (ii) cause the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entil y not to assign, abrogate or waive any of the Second Plant
Subsidiary Loan Ai,reements or any of their respective provisions. The Borrower
shall not amend, aid shall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity
not to amend any )f the Second Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of
their respective prc visions without the prior approval of the World Bank. Such
prior approval shal be deemed to have been granted by the World Bank in the
absence of respons, from the World Bank within fifteen (15) days from the date
on which a reques: for prior approval shall have been communicated by the
Borrower to the Wc rld Bank.
3. 
To facilitate the car ying out of Part 1.C of the Project by the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entit i, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time 1 i Category 2 of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this
Schedule and the p oceeds of the AFD Co-financing, the AfDB Third Plant Co-
financing I, the A: DB Third Plant Co-financing II, the EIB Third Plant Co-
financing, and the KfW Third Plant Co-financing available to the Third Plant
Project Implementii tg Entity as a loan or loans under one or more subsidiary loan
agreements betweei the Borrower and the Third Plant Project Implementing
Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the World Bank ("Third Plant
Subsidiary Loan A greements"), including the commitments of the Third Plant
Project Implementi ig Entity set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the
right of the Borr wer to suspend disbursements under such Third Plant
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in case of non-compliance by the Third Plant
Project Implementing Entity.
4. 
The Borrower shal exercise its rights and shall cause the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entit i to exercise its rights under the Third Plant Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as
the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) not assign, abrogate
or waive any of the Third Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of their
respective provisior s; and (ii) cause the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity
not to assign, abr )gate or waive any of the Third Plant Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any f their respective provisions. The Borrower shall not amend,
and shall cause the Fhird Plant Project Implementing Entity not to amend any of
the Third Plant Sub idiary Loan Agreements or any of their respective provisions
without the prior Epproval of the World Bank. Such prior approval shall be
deemed to have bee i granted by the World Bank in the absence of response from
the World Bank wi thin fifteen (15) days from the date on which a request for
- 11 -
prior approval shall have been communicated by the Borrower to the World
Bank.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of tht Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and (ii) cause the Second Plan1
Project Implementir g Entity and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain within the Project Management Unit, an
environmental and Eocial safeguards unit, including an environmental and social
safeguard coordinat Or with terms of reference and qualifications, budget and
material support ad -quate to supervise the implementation of, and compliance
with the FESIA; an I (ii) cause each of the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity and the Thire Plant Project Implementing Entity to establish and maintain
an environmental a id social unit adequate to supervise the preparation of the
relevant SESIAs, f irther implement the relevant SESMP and report to the
Borrower on implementation of all mitigation measures, including health and
safety.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each of the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity
and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity: (i) not to authorize any
commencement of civil works to build the Second Plant or Third Plant, as
applicable, before i he relevant SESIA is prepared, adopted and disclosed in
accordance with t .e FESIA; (ii) to disclose all relevant safeguard-related
documentation rega ding Part 1 of the Project, including the SESIAs; (iii) to
construct and open tte the Second Plant and the Third Plant at all times in
compliance with th, relevant SESIAs and the Plant-site LAPs; and (iv) not to
amend, suspend, at rogate, repeal or waive any provision of the SESIAs, the
Plant-site LAPs or any Associated Facility ESIAs, if applicable, without prior
consultation with, aid approval of the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shal : (i) disclose all relevant safeguard-related documentation
regarding Part 1 of he Project, including the Common Infrastructure ESIAs, the
SESIAs, the SESD IPs, and any mitigation measures and/or environmental
management plans, as appropriate, for any of the Second Plant Associated
Facilities and Thir( Plant Associated Facilities; (ii) construct and operate the
Second Plant and t ie Third Plant at all times in compliance with the relevant
Common Infrastructure ESIAs and the Plant-site LAPs; and (iii) not amend.,
suspend, abrogate, i epeal or waive any provision of the Common Infrastructure
- 12 -
ESIAs or the Plant-s ite LAPs without prior consultation with, and approval of the
World Bank.
4. 
The Borrower 
sh all: 
(i) cause 
Associated Facilities 
ESIAs 
including,
environmental mane gement plans for any Second Plant Associated Facilities and
any Third Plant Ass )ciated Facilities to be developed in a manner consistent with
the provisions of tht FESIA; (ii) provide the World Bank with the relevant draft
Associated Facilitie; ESIA for its comments and feedback on such documents:
and (iii) inform the World Bank about the status of the preparation and adoption
of the final Associal -d Facilities ESIA, including any mitigation measures and/or
environmental man.gement plan as appropriate, for any of such Second Plant
Associated Facilitie! or the Third Plant Associated Facilities.
5. 
The Borrower shall -nsure that due diligence is carried out to assess any need for
land acquisition anc /or involuntary resettlement for a particular activity prior to
commencing civil works for such activity. In case land acquisition and/or
involuntary resettle nent would be required for any Second Plant Associated
Facilities or the Thij d Plant Associated Facilities or for any activity related to the
Second Plant or the Fhird Plant, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that LAPs be prepared either: (i) in case of involuntary
resettlemeni, in compliance with the requirements and procedures se.
forth in the RPF; or (ii) in case of voluntary land acquisition, including
supporting locumentary evidence proving the voluntary nature of the
transaction;
(b) 
provide the World Bank with copies of such LAPs for its review and
concurrence before the commencement of any related civil works;
(c) 
ensure that prior to commencing civil works for the relevant Second
Plant Asso:iated Facility, Third Plant Associated Facility, or any
relevant act ivity related to the Second Plant or to the Third Plant, all
resettlemeni measures set forth in the relevant LAP in relation to the
specific civ I work shall have been fully executed, including the full
payment of :ompensation; and
(d) 
in case of involuntary land acquisition, ensure that such LAPs are
adopted and disclosed by the relevant parties.
6. 
The Borrower shall -nsure that: (i) the Second Plant Associated Facilities and the
Third Plant Associa ed Facilities shall be constructed, operated and implemented
in accordance witf the RPF, the Associated Facility ESIAs (including any
mitigation measure s and/or environmental management plans), and the
Associated Facility LAPs, as applicable; and (ii) no provision of the RPF, the
Associated 
Facilit' 
ESIAs (including 
any 
mitigation 
measures 
and/or
- 13 -
environmental man, igement plans), and the Associated Facility LAPs, shall be
amended, suspende 1, abrogated, repealed or waived without prior consultation
with, and approval (f the World Bank.
7. 
The Borrower shall: (i) cause each of the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity and the Thirn Plant Project Implementing Entity to prepare and submit to
the Borrower an ei vironmental and social management report on a bi-annual
basis during the cor struction of the Second Plant and the Third Plant, and on an
annual basis durinl, operation of the Second Plant and the Third Plant; and
(ii) include a sumniary of such reports in the Project Reports referred to in
Section II.A of this ;chedule 2.
8. 
Not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall prepare
a progress report o. the implementation of the SDP and provide such report to
the World Bank for ts comments and recommendations
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of
Part 1.A of the Project and Part 1.C of the Project, respectively, and to prepare
Project Reports in a,.cordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on he basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shal I cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be:
furnished by the Se:ond Plant Project Implementing Entity and the Third Plant
Project Implementir g Entity to the Borrower not later than four (4) weeks after
the end of the perio I covered by such report for forwarding by the Borrower to
the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) after the end of the period covered
by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to provide to the Borrower not later than
three (3) months a ter the Closing Date, for incorporation in the Completion
Report referred to in Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions, all such
information as the Iorrower or the World Bank shall reasonably request for the
purposes of that Seition. The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The
Borrower shall furn sh the Completion Report to the World Bank not later than
six (6) months after :he Closing Date.
- 14 -
B. 
Financial Manage nent; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shal ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
are prepared and ft mished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of ea -h calendar semester, covering the semester, in a form and
substance agreed b, the Borrower with the World Bank.
3. 
With respect to eai:h withdrawal application under Category (1), the Borrower
shall prepare and ft mish to the World Bank an interim unaudited financial report
for the Project covcring the time period agreed with the World Bank, in a form
and substance agre -d by the Borrower and the World Bank. Each such interim
unaudited financial report shall include the technical audit report, in form and
substance satisfactwry to the World Bank, to be prepared by the independent
verification expert referred to in Section I.A.6 of this Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. Each s ich technical audit report shall be focused in particular on:
(i) the achievement of the milestones set forth in the Second Plant EPC Contract;
and (ii) compliance with pricing provisions set forth in the Second Plant EPC
Contract.
4. 
With respect to each withdrawal application under Category (2), the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the World Bank an interim unaudited financial report
for the Project cov ring the time period agreed with the World Bank, in a form
and substance agreod by the Borrower and the World Bank. Each such interim
unaudited financial report shall include the technical audit report, in form and
substance satisfact(ry to the World Bank, to be prepared by the independent
verification expert referred to in Section I.A.6 of this Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. Each s ich technical audit report shall be focused in particular on:
(i) the achievement of the milestones set forth in the Third Plant EPC Contract;
and (ii) complianc: with pricing provisions set forth in the Third Plant EPC
Contract.
5. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the
Financial Statemeni s shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financ al Statements for each such period shall be furmished to the
World Bank not late r than six months after the end of such period.
6. 
The Borrower shall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Projeci Implementing Entity to maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standard i acceptable to the World Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations and financial condition of the Second Plant Project
- 15 -
Implementing Entity and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity, including
the operations, reso irces and expenditures related to the Project.
7. 
The Borrower shall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to have their financial statements
referred to in paraj raph 6 above audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the World Bank, :n accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the World Bank. Each audit of these financial statements shall
cover the period o' one fiscal year of the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity. The Borrower shall
cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the Third Plant Project
Implementing Enti y to ensure that the audited financial statements for each
period shall be: (a) lurnished to the Borrower for transmission to the World Bank
not later than six ((,) months after the end of the period; and (b) made publicly
available in a timeli fashion and in a manner acceptable to the World Bank.
Section III. 
Procurem nt
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works ai d Non-consulting services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for Part 1.A and Part 1.C of the Project and to be
financed out of the )roceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set fo th or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and with the provisi ans of this Section.
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurer ent methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contract!, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guide:ines.
B. 
Particular Metho( of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services.
Procurement 
un ler 
Public 
Private Partnership Arrangements: 
the
entrepreneurs respo isible for the development of the Second Plant and the Third
Plant shall be selec ed through open competitive bidding procedures determined
acceptable by the Norld Bank in accordance with paragraph 3.14 (a) of the
Procurement Guidelines.
- 16-
C. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The contract for the selection of the entrepreneurs responsible for the
development of thc Second Plant and the Third Plant referred in Section 111.13
above shall be subj, ct to the World Bank's Prior Review.
Section IV. 
Withdraw kI of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Arti,.le III of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such
additional instructi(ns as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "W(rld Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised frc m time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pur: uant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the tablc in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loa r to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligibl Expenditures in each Category:
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Loan Allocated 
Financed
( xpressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and 
68,000,000 
28.4%
non-consulting
services under
Part L.A of the
Project
(2) Goods, works and 
51,000,000 
28.3%
non-consulting
services under
Part 1.C of the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
119,000,000
- 17-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding th( provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the World Bank has received payment in
full of the N [anagement Fee;
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawah up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $24,000,000 may
be made I Dr payments made prior to this date but on or after
January 15, 2015, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2);
or
(c) 
under Category (1), until:
(i) 
evi( ence satisfactory to the World Bank has been furnished to
the World Bank that the following conditions have been
sati;fied:
(A) 
The Second Plant Project Implementing Entity has been
legally established in a manner satisfactory to the
World Bank.
(B) 
The Second Plant Project Implementing Entity has
established an accounting and financial management
system satisfactory to the World Bank.
(C) 
The Second Plant Project Implementing Entity has
adopted the Second Plant Financial Management and
Disbursement Manual, satisfactory to the World Bank
and the Co-financiers.
(D) 
The Second Plant Project Implementing Entity has
adopted the Second Plant Governance Framework,
satisfactory to the World Bank.
(E) 
The Second Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements have
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Second
Plant Project Implementing Entity and all conditions
precedent to their effectiveness and to the right of the
Second Plant Project Implementing Entity to make
withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have been satisfied or waived.
-18-
(F) 
All conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under Category (1) in the table in
Section IV of Schedule 2 to the IBRD Loan Agreement
have been satisfied or waived.
(G; 
The Borrower and the Kingdom of Morocco have
entered into the Second Plant Specific Convention.
(H; 
Execution and satisfaction or waiver of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness and, to the extent
applicable, to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement), of all the following agreements:
1. 
the 
AfDB 
Second 
Plant 
Co-financing
Agreements;
2. 
the EC Second Plant Co-financing Agreement;
3. 
the EIB Second Plant Co-financing Agreement;
and
4. 
the KfW Second Plant Co-financing Agreement.
(I) 
Execution and satisfaction or waiver of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness and, to the extent
applicable, to the right of the Borrower or of the Second
Plant Project Implementing Entity to make withdrawals
under them (other than the effectiveness 
of this
Agreement), of all other agreements, to be found
satisfactory by the World Bank in form and substance
within reasonable time, required to finance, construct,
own, and operate the Second Plant, including, but not
limited to:
1. 
the Second Plant EPC Contract;
2. 
the Second Plant Operation and Maintenance
Agreement;
3. 
the Second Plant Power Purchase Agreement;
4. 
the Second Plant Power Sale Agreement; and
5. 
the Second Plant Shareholders' Agreement.
- 19-
(ii) 
Tho World Bank has been furnished with opinions satisfactory to
the World Bank of counsels acceptable to the World Bank,
shc wing that the Second Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements have
bet n duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Second
Pla -t Project Implementing Entity, and are legally binding upon
the Borrower and the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity
in ,ccordance with their terms.
(iii) 
Thc World Bank has been furnished with opinions satisfactory to
the World Bank of counsels acceptable to the World Bank,
shc wing that each of the agreements referred to in paragraph
(c)(i)(I) above has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the
par ies thereto, and is legally binding upon each of the parties
the eto in accordance with its terms.
(iv) 
The Borrower shall have provided to the World Bank, with
respect to each withdrawal application, the relevant interim
una udited financial report for the Project, including the report
refi rred to in Section II.B.3 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
in f rm and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
(d) 
under Cate ory (2), until:
(i) 
evi4 lence satisfactory to the World Bank has been furnished to
the World Bank that the following conditions have been
sati;fied;
(A) 
The Third Plant Project Implementing Entity has been
legally established in a manner satisfactory to the World
Bank.
(B) 
The Third Plant Project Implementing Entity has
established an accounting and financial management
system satisfactory to the World Bank.
(C) 
The Third Plant Project Implementing Entity has
adopted the Third Plant Financial Management and
Disbursement Manual, satisfactory to the World Bank
and the Co-financiers.
(D) 
The Third Plant Project Implementing Entity has
adopted the Third 
Plant Governance 
Framework,
satisfactory to the World Bank.
- 20 -
(E) 
The Third Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Third Plant
Project Implementing Entity and all conditions precedent
to their effectiveness and to the right of the Third Plant
Project Implementing Entity to make withdrawals under
them (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been satisfied or waived.
(F) 
All conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under Category (2) in the table in
Section IV of Schedule 2 to the IBRD Loan Agreement
have been satisfied or waived.
(G) 
The Borrower and the Kingdom of Morocco have
entered into the Third Plant Specific Convention.
(H) 
Execution and satisfaction or waiver of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness and, to the extent
applicable, to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement), of all the following agreements:
1. 
the AFD Co-financing Agreement;
2. 
the AfDB Third Plant Co-financing Agreements;
3. 
the EC Third Plant Co-financing Agreement;
4. 
the EIB Third Plant Co-financing Agreement;
and
5. 
the KfW Third Plant Co-financing Agreements.
(I) 
Execution and satisfaction or waiver of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness and, to the extent
applicable, to the right of the Borrower or of the Third
Plant Project Implementing Entity to make withdrawals
under them (other than the effectiveness 
of this
Agreement), of all other agreements, to be found
satisfactory by the World Bank in form and substance
within reasonable time, required to finance, construct,
own, and operate the Third Plant, including, but not
limited to:
1. 
the Third Plant EPC Contract;
-21 -
2. 
the Third Plant Operation and Maintenance
Agreement;
3. 
the Third Plant Power Purchase Agreement;
4. 
the Third Plant Power Sale Agreement; and
5. 
the Third Plant Shareholders' Agreement.
(ii) 
the World Bank has been furnished with opinions satisfactory to
the World Bank of counsels acceptable to the World Bank,
sho ving that the Third Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements have
beei duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Third
Plait Project Implementing Entity, and are legally binding upon
the Borrower and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity in
acci ordance with their terms;
(iii) 
the World Bank has been furnished with opinions satisfactory to
the World Bank of counsels acceptable to the World Bank,
sho ving that each of the agreements referred to in paragraph
(d)( )(I) above has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the
parl les thereto, and is legally binding upon each of the parties
ther -to in accordance with its terms; and
(iv) 
the Borrower shall have provided to the World Bank, with
resy ect to each withdrawal application, the relevant interim
una idited financial report for the Project, including the report
referred to in Section II.B.4 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
Section V. 
Other Und'rtakings
A. 
Except as otherwis- agreed by the World Bank, the Borrower's Equity shall
remain positive on i yearly basis commencing with the Borrower's fiscal year
2015, as evidenced 1y the Borrower's yearly audited financial statements.
B. 
Not later than the er d of each fiscal year commencing with the Borrower's fiscal
year 2015, the Borr wer shall furnish to the World Bank a copy of the business
plan and financial projections (which shall include projected consolidated
balance sheet, incot ie statement and cash flow statement), of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries for each upcoming fiscal year, as adopted by the Management
Board (Directoire) (f the Borrower and prepared in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the World Bank, in a form and
substance agreed by the Borrower and the World Bank.
-22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Paym ,nt Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)
On each January I and Jul:, 1:
commencing January 1, 20 25, to and including 
1%
July 1, 2034
Commencing January 1, 2(35, to and including 
2%
July 1, 2054
- 23 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"AFD Co-financiet " means Agence Franqaise de Diveloppement, the French
Development Agen :y, referred to in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions.
2. 
"AFD Co-financing " means an amount of EUR 50 million to be provided to the
Borrower by the AI D Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.C of the Project.
3. 
"AFD Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and tl e AFD Co-financier providing for the AFD Co-financing.
4. 
"AfDB Co-financi(r" means African Development Bank, referred to in the
Appendix to the Sta rdard Conditions.
5. 
"AfDB Second Plar t Co-financing Agreements" means the two agreements to be
entered into betwee i the Borrower and the AfDB Co-financier providing for the
AfDB Second Plant Co-financing I and the AfDB Second Plant Co-financing II,
respectively.
6. 
"AfDB Second Plai t Co-financing I" means an amount of EUR 72 million to be
provided to the Bo rower by the AfDB Co-financier to assist in financing Part
1.A of the Project.
7. 
"AfDB Second Plar t Co-financing II" means an amount of EUR 50 million to be
provided to the Bol rower by the AfDB Co-financier acting as an implementing
entity of the Clean Technology Fund to assist in financing Part L.A of the Project.
8. 
"AfDB Third Plant Co-financing Agreements" means the two agreements to be
entered into betwee i the Borrower and the AfDB Co-financier providing for the
AfDB Third Plant Co-financing I and the AfDB Third Plant Co-financing II,
respectively.
9. 
"AfDB Third Plant Co-financing I" means an amount of EUR 28 million to be
provided to the Boi rower by the AfDB Co-financier to assist in financing Parr
1.C of the Project.
10. 
"AfDB Third Plant 2o-financing II" means an amount of EUR 37.5 million to be
provided to the Borrower by the AfDB Co-financier acting as an implementing
entity of the Clean Technology Fund to assist in financing Part 1.C of the Project.
- 24 -
11. 
"Anti-Corruption 
3uidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud a id Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
12. 
"Associated Facility Environmental and Social Assessments" or "Associated
Facility ESIAs" me uns collectively: (i) the environmental and social management
plan dated March 19, 2014, describing all processes, rules, principles including
monitoring and ev iluation, public disclosure and consultation, including any
mitigation measure; and/or environmental management plans applicable to the
Project's water inta e facility; and (ii) the Ouarzazate-Tazzart Transmission Line
EIA; such Associa ed Facility ESIAs to be further disclosed and maintained
publicly available c n the Borrower's website through the implementation of the
Project, and as the Y Lssociated Facility ESIAs may be amended from time to time
after consultation w th, and with the prior approval of the World Bank.
13. 
"Associated Facilit i Land Acquisition Plans" or "Associated Facility LAPs"
means collectively: (a) the Land Acquisition Plan for the water intake facility
adopted and disclo. ed by the Borrower on March 19, 2014; and (b) any other
LAPs, satisfactory 10 the World Bank, to be prepared, adopted and disclosed in
the Kingdom of Mc rocco in accordance with Section I.D.5 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and furt ier implemented by the relevant party in order to acquire the
land needed for the purpose of Parts 1.B or I.D of the Project, that are either:
(i) in the case of inv:luntary land acquisition, in compliance with the terms of the
Resettlement Policy Framework; or (ii) in the case of voluntary land acquisition,
providing evidence of the voluntary nature of the transaction, including, among
other items: (A) the description of the land to be acquired and actually acquired,
including a map; (B) the applicable legal framework for land acquisition for the
purpose of Parts 11 or 1.D of the Project; (C) the process followed for the land
acquisition includin. consultation of affected communities, local, provincial and
national authorities, and formal agreement of relevant parties on land acquisition;
(D) payment of compensation; (E) the grievance mechanisms available to
affected communiti s; and (F) the monitoring of mitigation measures, evaluation
and disclosure procc sses.
14. 
"Basic Legislation" means the Law No. 57-09 of the Kingdom of Morocco as
promulgated pursuant to the Law ("Dahir") No. 1.10-18 of the Kingdom of
Morocco, dated Felbruary 11, 2010, pursuant to which the Borrower has been
established and is or erating as a commercial company (socitj anonyme).
15. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"Co-financiers" me ins the AFD Co-financier, AfDB Co-financier, EC Co-
financier, EIB Co-f iancier and KfW Co-financier.
- 25 -
17. 
"Common Infrastri cture ESIAs" means collectively: (i) the environmental and
social assessment or the common infrastructure, including the water storage,
(ICESIA) adopted and disclosed by the Borrower on February 11, 2013; and
(ii) any other environmental and social assessment to be carried out by the
Borrower for any common infrastructure for Parts LA or 1.C of the Project.
18. 
"Conventions" me ins the General Convention, the Second Plant Specific
Convention, the Th rd Plant Specific Convention and the Tripartite Convention.
19. 
"Displaced Person' means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experie iced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the ii voluntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter, (ii) loss of assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihooc, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involun :ary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, res0lting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
20. 
"EC Co-financier" neans the European Commission, referred to in the Appendix
to the Standard Con litions.
21. 
"EC Second Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 40 million to be
provided to the I orrower as a grant by the EC Co-financier under its
Neighborhood Inve tment Facility to assist in financing Part L.A of the Project,
including through 1 he financing of the Borrower's share of the Second Plant
Project Implementir g Entity' equity interest.
22. 
"EC Second Plant Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Bc rrower and the EC Co-financier providing for the EC Second
Plant Co-financing.
23. 
"EC Third Plant C o-financing" means an amount of EUR 50 million to be
provided to the I orrower as a grant by the EC Co-financier under its
Neighborhood Inve:,tment Facility to assist in financing Part 1.C of the Project,
including through he financing of the Borrower's share of the Third Plant
Project Implementir g Entity' equity interest.
24. 
"EC Third Plant 0 i-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Bt rrower and the EC Co-financier providing for the EC Third
Plant Co-financing.
25. 
"EIB Co-financier' 
means European Investment Bank, referred to in the
Appendix to the Sta idard Conditions.
- 26 -
26. 
"EIB Second Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 254 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the EIB Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.A
of the Project.
27. 
"EIB Second Plant Zo-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the EIB Co-financier providing for the EIB
Second Plant Co-fir ancing.
28. 
"EIB Third Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 96 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the EIB Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.C
of the Project.
29. 
"EIB Third Plant C o-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Bc rrower and the EIB Co-financier providing for the EIB Third
Plant Co-financing.
30. 
"Equity" means the sum of equity contributions (paid-up capital and premium
paid in relation to i ssued shares, share contributions, and mergers), revaluation
adjustments, reserv!s, net result carried forward (debtor and creditor), retained
earnings (including the current year net result), investment subsidies and
regulated provisions.
31. 
"First Plant" mean, the concentrated solar parabolic trough facility for the
generation of electi icity of a capacity up to 160 megawatt gross at a 2,500
hectare site located 10 kilometers northeast of the city of Ouarzazate in the
Kingdom of Morocco, to be constructed under Part 1.A of the First Plant Project.
32. 
"First Plant Associated Facilities" means those facilities and infrastructures.
including but not li nited to those to be built and operated for the purposes of:
(i) providing water I r the operation of the First Plant; and (ii) transporting power
to and from the First Plant through transmission lines.
33. 
"First Plant CTF L :an Agreement" means the Clean Technology Fund Loan
Agreement for the Ouarzazate I Concentrated Solar Power Plant Project
(CTF Loan Numbe - TFO 10916) dated December 7, 2011, between the World
Bank acting as an i nplementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund, and the
Borrower.
34. 
"First Plant Project' means the project described in Schedule I to the First Plant
CTF Loan Agreeme it.
35. 
"First Plant Project Implementing Entity" means the company established under
the laws of the Kir gdom of Morocco by the Borrower and the competitively
selected partner to dvelop the First Plant to be constructed under Part L.A of the
First Plant Project.
-27 -
36. 
"Framework Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "FESIA" mean
the environmental md social impact assessment framework document prepared
for the purpose of I'art I of the Project, adopted by MASEN, further disclosed in
the Kingdom of Morocco on June 25, 2014, and to be maintained publicly
available through ihe implementation of the Project, such FESIA describing,
among other items: (i) the legal, policy and regulatory framework applicable to
the environmental , nd social management of Part 1 of the Project, including the
environmental nor ns, rules and procedures applicable to the construction,
operation and maintenance of the Second Plant and the Third Plant; (ii) the
process to be folloN ied by the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to develop SESIAs or Associated
Facilities ESIAs, if applicable, before commencing any civil works under Part I
of the Project, inclL ding the implementation of and compliance with the SESIAs
and the Associated Facilities ESIAs; and (iii) the disclosure and consultation
process to be implemented during the preparation of the SESIAs, and the
construction and ol eration of the Second Plant and the Third Plant, and as the
FESIAs may be am nded from time to time after consultation with, and with the
prior approval of th! World Bank.
37. 
"General Conventi n" means the convention dated October 26, 2010, entered
into between the Ki igdom of Morocco and the Borrower pursuant to Article I of
the Basic Legislatic n, and approved by the Kingdom of Morocco under Decree
No. 2-11-528 dated September 8, 2011, regarding the conditions and modalities
necessary for the in plementation of the solar energy program of the Kingdom of
Morocco.
38. 
"IBRD Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
World Bank for Par: .A, Part 1.C and Part 2 of the Project, of the same date as,
this Agreement, as ;uch agreement may be amended from time to time. "IBRD
Loan 
Agreement" 
includes 
all 
appendices, 
schedules 
and agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
39. 
"KfW Co-financiei " means Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaujbau, the German
Development Agenc y, referred to in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions.
40. 
"KfW Second Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 330 million to be
provided to the Bor cwer by the KfW Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.A
of the Project.
41. 
"KfW Second Plant Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the B >rrower and the KfW Co-financier providing for the KfW
Second Plant Co-fin incing.
- 28 -
42. 
"KfW Third Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 324 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the KfW Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.C
of the Project.
43. 
"KfW Third Plant Co-financing Agreement" means the agreements to be entered
into between the E orrower and the KfW Co-financier providing for the KfW
Third Plant Co-fina icing.
44. 
"Land Acquisition 3lans" or "LAPs" means any Plant-Site LAPs or Associated
Facility LAPs, as ihe case may be, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared,
adopted and disclo! ed in the Kingdom of Morocco in accordance with Section
I.D.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
45. 
"MASEN Capital" means the subsidiary of the Borrower established under the
laws of the Kingdo n of Morocco by the Borrower, which will hold its share of
the equity interest n the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and in the
Third Plant Project mplementing Entity.
46. 
"MASEN Financial Management and Disbursement Manual" means the manual
describing 
the 
f nancial 
management, 
co-financing 
and 
disbursement
arrangements for tl e Project, adopted by the Borrower on June 7, 2013, and
referred to in Sectio i I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
47. 
"MASEN Govemar ce Framework" means the set of rules and practices, policies
and procedures de! igned to facilitate accrued efficiency and prevent corrupt
practices, adopted b' the Borrower on June 7, 2013.
48. 
"Noor-Ouarzazate 5 olar Complex" means the First Plant, the Second Plant and
the Third Plant, as well as the First Plant Associated Facilities, Second Plant
Associated Facilitie; and Third Plant Associated Facilities.
49. 
"ONEE" means OfJ ce National de 1'Electricitg et de l'Eau Potable, the National
Electricity and Wat r Agency of the Kingdom of Morocco.
50. 
"Ouarzazate-Tazzar 
Transmission Line" means the 225 kilovolt transmission
line extending betw,-en the substations at Ouarzazate city and Tazzart to ensure
transmission of the nergy output of the Second Plant and the Third Plant to the
wider Moroccan ele tricity grid.
51. 
"Ouarzazate-Tazzar 
Transmission Line EIA" means the environmental and
social assessment dted June 26, 2014, describing all processes, rules, principles
including monitori ig and evaluation, public disclosure and consultation,
including any miti Yation measures and/or environmental management plans
applicable to the Ou irzazate-Tazzart Transmission Line.
- 29 -
52. 
"Plant-site Land Acquisition Plans" or "Plant-site LAPs" means collectively:
(a) the Land AcqL isition Plan for the common infrastructure (ICESIA LAP)
adopted and disclcsed by the Borrower on February 11, 2013; (b) the plan
prepared, adopted , nd disclosed on June 1, 2011, in the Kingdom of Morocco
and further implem,.nted by the Borrower in order to acquire the land needed for
the purpose of Part LA and Part 1.C of the Project; (c) the Land Acquisition Plan
prepared and adopti d in May 2013 by the Borrower and further implemented by
the Borrower in orc er to acquire the additional ha of land needed for the purpose
of Part 1.A and Pait 1 .C of the Project; and (d) any other LAP to be carried out
by the Second Pl mt Project Implementing Entity, the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entit 7, or another party for Part 1.A or Part 1.C of the Project; all
such Plant-site LAF s including, among other items: (i) the description of the land
to be acquired and actually acquired by the Borrower, including a map; (ii) the
applicable legal fra nework for land acquisition for the purpose of Part 1.A and
Part 1.C of the P -oject; (iii) the process followed for the land acquisition
including consultat on of affected communities, local, provincial and national
authorities, and fi rmal agreement of relevant parties on land acquisition;
(iv) payment of compensation; (v) the grievance mechanisms available to
affected communiti.s; and (vi) the monitoring of mitigation measures, evaluation
and disclosure proc sses.
53. 
"Procurement Guid,,lines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrovers" dated January 2011.
54. 
"Project Managem .nt Unit" means the Borrower's unit responsible for the
management of the Project, referred to in Section I.A.2 in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
55. 
"Resettlement Poli:y Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy
framework adopted by ONEE as part of the Ouarzazate-Tazzart Transmission
Line EIA, containit g guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications
for the provision o ' compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to
Displaced Persons, as amended from time to time with the prior written consent
of the World Bank.
56. 
"Second Plant" me ans the concentrated solar parabolic trough facility for the
generation of elect -icity of a capacity up to 200 megawatt gross, at a 2,500
hectare site locate( 10 kilometers northeast of the city of Ouarzazate in the
Kingdom of Moroc o.
57. 
"Second Plant Associated Facilities" means those facilities and infrastructures
referred to in Section 4.3.5 of the FESIA, including those to be built and operated
for the purposes of: (i) providing water for the operation of the Second Plant; and
(ii) transporting po-v,er to and from the Second Plant through transmission line.
-30-
58. 
"Second Plant Engi leering, Procurement and Construction Contract" or "Second
Plant EPC Contraci " means the contract to be entered into by the Second Plant
Project Implement ng Entity and a third-party contractors for front-end
engineering design, procurement of equipment and services, and construction of
the Second Plant o ia lump-sum, turnkey basis or such other basis as may be
suitable for complei ion of the facility within the timeframe, technical parameters
and other terms ai reed between the Borrower and the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entit- in the Second Plant Power Purchase Agreement.
59. 
"Second Plant Fins ncial Management and Disbursement Manual" means the
manual describing the financial management, co-financing and disbursement
arrangements for P rt 1.A of the Project, and referred to in Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this A greement.
60. 
"Second Plant Gov,rmance Framework" means the set of rules and practices,
policies and proce ures designed to facilitate accrued efficiency and prevent
corrupt practices, satisfactory to the World Bank, to be prepared and adopted by
the Second Plant Pro ject Implementing Entity.
61. 
"Second Plant Opet ation and Maintenance Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into betw een the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and a third
party operator alloc iting to the operator the obligation to operate and maintain
the Second Plant in Lccordance with its terms and conditions.
62. 
"Second Plant Powor Purchase Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Bo -ower and the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity for
the sale by the Secind Plant Project Implementing Entity, and the purchase by
the Borrower, of ek ctricity generated from the Second Plant in accordance with
its terms and conditi :ns.
63. 
"Second Plant Powi r Sale Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrow -r and ONEE for the sale by the Borrower, and the purchase
by ONEE, of electr c capacity and energy generated from the Second Plant in
accordance with its i erms and conditions.
64. 
"Second Plant Proje:t Implementing Entity" means the company to be held under
the laws of the K ingdom of Morocco by the Borrower and one or more
competitively seleci ed partners to develop the Second Plant to be constructed
under Part L.A of thc Project.
65. 
"Second Plant Sharc holders' Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
by MASEN Capital with all the other holders of all of the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entitr's voting and nonvoting equity interest that governs their
-31-
relationship and co lective approach to management of the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entit 's affairs.
66. 
"Second Plant Spec-ific Convention" means the convention to be entered into
between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Borrower pursuant to Article 22 of the
General Conventio 1, setting forth in particular undertakings from the Kingdom
of Morocco to ens ire the economic and financial equilibrium of Part 1.A and
Part 1.B of the Proj ect.
67. 
"Second 
Plant S ibsidiary Loan Agreements" 
means the agreement or
agreements, as the .ase may be, referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan and the proceeds of the AfDB Second Plant Co-financing I, the
AfDB Second Plan Co-financing II, the EIB Second Plant Co-financing, and the
KfW Second Plant 2o-financing available as a loan or loans, as the case may be,
to the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity.
68. 
"Social Developmont Plan" or "SDP" means the social development plan
describing: (i) the b nefits that will accrue to local communities in the area of the
Project through the use of the proceeds of the compensation paid pursuant to the
provisions of the 3lant-site LAPs for the land acquisition necessary for the
Project; and (ii) o :her voluntary actions planned to be implemented by the
Borrower and/or an { other stakeholder.
69. 
"Specific Environr nental and Social Assessments" or "SESIAs" means, the
assessment or asses sments, as the case may be, to be carried out by the Second
Plant Project Impl ementing Entity and the Third Plant Project Implementing
Entity for Part 1.A md Part 1.C of the Project, in accordance with the provisions
of the FESIA, including all processes, rules, principles including monitoring and
evaluation, public cisclosure and consultation, and SESMPs, as described in the
FESIA, and to be st bmitted to the World Bank for its review and approval before
the commencement of the construction of the Second Plant or the Third Plant, as
applicable, such , ESIAs to be further disclosed and maintained publicly
available on the B rrower's website through the implementation of the Project,
and as the SESIAs may be amended from time to time after consultation with,
and with the prior a )proval of the World Bank.
70. 
"Specific Environn ental and Social Management Plans" or "SESMPs" means
the plan or the plai is, as the case may be, to be developed and adopted by the
Second Plant Proiect Implementing Entity and the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entil y, as part of the SESIAs, for Part L.A and Part 1.C of the
Project, and contaiiiing, inter alia, the mitigation measures to monitor; reduce;
offset or compensa:e any environmental and/or negative impact that may arise
from the activities under Part 1.A and Part 1.C of the Project, such plans to
include institution d 
arrangements 
for their implementation, budget and
-32-
monitoring and ev iluation systems to implement, monitor and evaluate said
mitigation measure;, and as the SESMPs may be amended from time to time
after consultation A ith, and with the prior approval of the World Bank.
71. 
"Standard Conditior s" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.
72. 
"Third Plant" mear s the concentrated solar tower facility for the generation of
electricity of a capa -ity up to 150 megawatt gross, at a 2,500 hectare site located
10 kilometers north ,ast of the city of Ouarzazate in the Kingdom of Morocco.
73. 
"Third Plant AssoCiated Facilities" means those facilities and infrastructures
referred to in Section 4.3.5 of the FESIA, including those to be built and operated
for the purposes of: (i) providing water for the operation of the Third Plant; and
(ii) transporting pov,er to and from the Third Plant through transmission line.
74. 
"Third Plant Engir eering, Procurement and Construction Contract" or "Third
Plant EPC Contrac " means the contract to be entered into by the Third Plant
Project Implementing Entity and a third-party contractor 
for front-end
engineering design, procurement of equipment and services, and construction of
the Third Plant on a lump-sum, turnkey basis or such other basis as may be
suitable for complel ion of the facility within the timeframe, technical parameters
and other terms agreed between the Borrower and the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entit, in the Second Plant Power Purchase Agreement.
75. 
"Third Plant Finar cial Management and Disbursement Manual" means the
manual describing the financial management, co-financing and disbursement
arrangements for P art 1.C of the Project, and referred to in Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this A greement.
76. 
"Third Plant Gove -nance Framework" means the set of rules and practices,
policies and proce(ures designed to facilitate accrued efficiency and prevent
corrupt practices, sr tisfactory to the World Bank, to be prepared and adopted by
the Third Plant Proj -ct Implementing Entity.
77. 
"Third Plant Operat on and Maintenance Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity and a third
party operator alloc ating to the operator the obligation to operate and maintain
the Third Plant in accordance with its terms and conditions.
78. 
"Third Plant Power Purchase Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the BorroNer and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity for the
sale by the Third I lant Project Implementing Entity, and the purchase by the
Borrower, of electr city generated from the Third Plant in accordance with its
terms and condition;.
-33-
79. 
"Third Plant Powe - Sale Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrov'er and ONEE for the sale by the Borrower, and the purchase
by ONEE, of eleci ric capacity and energy generated from the Third Plant in
accordance with its terms and conditions.
80. 
"Third Plant Projec: Implementing Entity" means the company to be held under
the laws of the k' ingdom of Morocco by the Borrower and one or more
competitively selected partners to develop the Third Plant to be constructed
under Part 1.C of th,- Project.
81. 
"Third Plant Sharel [olders' Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
by MASEN Capita with all the other holders of all of the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entii y's voting and nonvoting equity interest that governs their
relationship and co lective approach to management of the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entit. 's affairs.
82. 
"Third Plant Specific Convention" means the convention to be entered into
between the Kingd m of Morocco and the Borrower pursuant to Article 22 of the
General Convention, setting forth in particular undertakings from the Kingdom
of Morocco to ensi ire the economic and financial equilibrium of Part 1. C and
Part I.D of the Proj :ct.
83. 
"Third Plant Subsi iary Loan Agreements" means the agreement or agreements,
as the case may be, referred to in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
pursuant to which t ie Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
and the proceeds of the AFD Co-financing, the AfDB Third Plant Co-financing 1,
the AfDB Third Ph nt Co-financing II, the EIB Third Plant Co-financing, and the
KfW Third Plant Co-financing available as a loan or loans, as the case may be, to
the Third Plant Proj -ct Implementing Entity.
84. 
"Tripartite Conveni ion" means the Convention dated October 26, 2010, entered
into among the Kingdom of Morocco, the Borrower and ONEE pursuant to
Article 3 of the B isic Legislation, regarding the obligations of each of such
parties regarding t ie supply, transport, commercialization and exportation of
electricity.
