OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
SCF/PPCR LOAN NUMBER TFfY486-MZ
Strategic Climate Fund
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
Loan Agreement
(Cities and Climate Change Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as an implementing entity of the
Strategic Climate Fund-Pilot Program for Climate Resilience)
Dated 
ovc 
8 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF16486-MZ
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
Vern6r 
, 2014, entered into between:
REPUBLIC 
OF 
MOZAMBIQUE 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("World Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity
but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund
("SCF").
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six million five hundred
thousand United States Dollars (USD 6,500,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF-PPCR. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the
Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World
Bank's payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the
amount of funds made available to it from the SCF-PPCR trust fund, and the
Borrower's right to withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such
funds.
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%).
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the Standard Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, 
namely, that the
World Bank has determined that at any time before the Closing Date, the
Borrower or any Eligible Municipality has failed to apply sound environmental
or social standards or practices in their management or carrying out of
infrastructure investments in such cities or territories.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The SCF-PPRC Grant Agreement has been signed and delivered, all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
(b) 
The Project Implementation Manual shall have been updated and adopted
by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-3-
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its minister at the time responsible for planning and development.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Planning and Development
Av. Ahmed S. Toure, 21, 4h floor
Maputo, Republic of Mozambique
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MOBANCO 
(258) 21 492-268 
(258) 21 492-625
Maputo
6.03. 
The World Bank's address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
(A 2x 4M 
1, 
as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authdi 
epresentative
Title: 
at b 
_c I
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as an implementing entity of the Strategic
Climate Fund-Pilot Program for Climate Resilience)
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen municipal capacity for sustainable
urban infrastructure provision and environmental management which enhance resiliency
to climate related risks.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Strenathening the municipal sector
Increase municipal capacity to sustainably plan, manage and finance climate
resilient urban development, including through the strengthening of the Borrower's
institutions underpinning its municipal system in order to improve sustainable
decentralized financing and management of the urban environment and infrastructure, by
means of:
(i) 
Local level support for improved municipal governance
(a) 
Municipal Performance Grants: Support Eligible Municipalities through
the financing of Sub-Projects, by providing Municipal Performance
Grants.
(b) 
Improved Urban Planning and Land Use Management: Support including
through: (A) the carrying out of climate vulnerability assessments, basic
spatial planning studies and development of urban land management
instruments in all Eligible Municipalities as well as urban environmental
and 
surface 
water 
management 
instruments 
in 
those 
Eligible
Municipalities vulnerable to climate related flooding and erosion; (B) the
development and dissemination of methodologies for urban planning and
land use and environmental management; and (C) the carrying out of
training sessions for municipal staff and technicians.
(c) 
Enhancement of Municipal Financial Sustainability: Support to improve
financial management and enhance municipal revenues, including
through the: (A) development and dissemination of methodologies for
revenue administration; (B) carrying out of training sessions in revenue
administration 
and 
financial 
management 
for 
municipal 
staff;
(C) provision of advisory services and equipment to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Eligible Municipalities; and (D) development
and implementation of financial and management systems.
-6-
(ii) 
National level support for improved municipal governance
Strengthen key national institutions regulating and supporting the municipal
system, by means of:
(a) 
Capacity Strengthening of MAE and MF to monitor the performance of
the municipalities 
and develop improved 
intergovernmental 
and
municipal policies and systems, including through the development and
implementation of the national policy and regulatory framework for
municipal governance.
(b) 
Strengthening of ANAMM 
to provide services 
to its member
municipalities, including through capacity building support activities and
policy and regulatory advocacy on municipal and intergovernmental
issues.
(c) 
Establishment and operation of a PIU in DNDA to support the
coordination and management of the Part A of the Project, including
through the provision of technical assistance, training, audits, goods and
operating costs.
Part B: Enhancing resilience of strategic Eligible Municipalities in coastal cities
Enhancement of selected municipalities, including those in Beira, Nacala and
Maputo metropolitan area, for sustainable resilience to weather-related environmental
threats, as follows:
(i) 
Identification of key investment priorities in selected municipalities to
strengthen resilience to climate related floods and erosion through the
carrying out of: (a) an assessment of current needs, including the
selection of the municipalities to be targeted, and projecting trends and
scenarios taking into account climate change considerations; and (b)
training sessions for the technical teams of AIAS on climate change
impacts on sanitation.
(ii) 
Strengthening resilience of the municipality of Beira to control floods,
including through the: (a) development of a comprehensive study on
integrated urban water management; (b) design and supervision of
drainage rehabilitation works; (c) carrying out of drainage rehabilitation
works, including the relining of the primary channel (central) of Beira's
drainage system; (d) carrying out of rehabilitation works affected by the
works referred to in (c) of this sub-paragraph, including fences, latrines,
verandas, side-walks as well as provision of resettlement houses
provided with basic infrastructure; (e) provision of advisory services and
-7-
equipment to strengthen the 
institutional capacity 
of 
Beira's
Autonomous 
Sanitation Service; 
and (f) 
carrying out of green
infrastructure support.
(iii) 
Strengthening the resilience of the municipality of Nacala to control
erosion, including through the: (a) design and supervision of erosion
control 
and 
drainage 
rehabilitation 
works, 
including 
associated
environmental and social support; (b) carrying out of erosion control and
drainage rehabilitation works, including those related to the three (3)
primary channels of Nacala's drainage system; and (c) provision of
advisory services and equipment to strengthen the institutional capacity
of 
Nacala municipality 
for managing drainage infrastructure and
erosion control.
(iv) 
Strengthening the resilience of municipalities in the Maputo metropolitan
area to control floods including through the development of a master
drainage and sanitation plan for the area.
(v) 
Establishment and operation of the PIU in AIAS to support the
coordination and management of Part B of the Project including through
the provision of technical assistance, audits, goods and operating costs.
(vi) 
Improved management and development of natural drainage, including:
(a) mapping natural drainage areas in Beira; (b) preparing green
infrastructure detail 
designs 
for selected natural drainage areas,
supervision 
of the 
implementation; 
(c) 
developing 
sustainable
maintenance and management models; (d) carrying out community
outreach 
campaigns; 
(e) 
undertaking 
scoping studies 
of green
infrastructure assets in five other municipal areas which shall serve as for
preparing guidelines for the Ministry of State Administration and
municipalities for the integration of green infrastructure management
into 
municipal 
planning 
and development; 
(f) developing 
and
implementing knowledge sharing and dissemination activities for the
Borrower's Eligible Municipalities; and (g) implementation of green
infrastructure investments.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Implementation Units (PIUs)
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) within
DNDA and AIAS, respectively, throughout the implementation of the Project,
with functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank, as follows:
(a) 
(i) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the
PIU for Part A of the Project shall have responsibility for the
day-to-day coordination 
and management of Part A of the
Project, including overall responsibility for, inter alia: (a)
ensuring timely implementation of the Project in accordance
with the PIM; (b) preparing Annual Work Plans and Budgets and
annual Procurement Plans; (c) overseeing activities under its
responsibility; (d) managing Project finances; (e) maintaining
consolidated Project accounts; (f) ensuring adherence to the
ESMF and RPF in the implementation of the Project; and (g)
developing and maintaining a system of monitoring the Project
key performance indicators.
(ii) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the
PIU for Part A of the Project shall be headed by a coordinator,
who shall be assisted by 
a technical team, including a
procurement officer and a financial management officer, and
staff with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the World
Bank.
(b) 
(i) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the
PIU shall have responsibility for the day-to-day coordination
and management of Part B of the Project, including overall
responsibility for, inter alia: (a) ensuring timely implementation
of the Project in accordance with the PIM; (b) preparing Annual
Work Plans and Budgets and annual procurement plans; (c)
overseeing Project activities 
under 
its responsibility; 
(d)
managing Project finances; (e) maintaining consolidated Project
accounts; (f) ensuring adherence to the ESMF and RPF in the
implementation 
of the Project; 
and (g) 
developing and
-9-
maintaining a system of monitoring the Project key performance
indicators.
(ii) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b)(i) above,
the PIU for Part B of the Project shall be headed by a
coordinator, who shall be assisted by a team comprised of, inter
alia: (a) a financial management specialist; (b) a procurement
specialist; (c) an environmental and social specialist; and (d) a
construction 
engineer; 
with experience 
and qualifications
satisfactory to the World Bank.
2. 
Eligible Municipalities
The Borrower shall at all times during the implementation of the Project ensure
that each Eligible Municipality maintains its eligibility as set forth in
Section I.C.2 below.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Project Implementation Manuals
(a) 
Without limitation of the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project, through DNDA and AIAS, in
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and the Project
Grants Manual (PGM).
(b) 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend, waive or fail to enforce the PIM and the PGM, or any provision
thereof. In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement
and those of the PIM or the PGM, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
2. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
The Borrower, through DNDA and AIAS, shall prepare and furnish to the World
Bank for its approval, not later than December 31 of each year during the
implementation of the Project, or such later date as the World Bank may agree,
the Annual Work Plans and Budgets containing all activities to be carried out in
the following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank,
taking into account the World Bank's comments and views on the matter.
-10-
C. 
Terms and Conditions for the implementation of Municipal Performance
Grants under Part A(i)(a) of the Project
1. 
Municipal Performance Grant
The Borrower shall ensure that the Municipal Performance Grants are transferred
to the respective Eligible Municipality in accordance with, and subject to, the
criteria, funds flow mechanism and processes specified in the PGM and this
Section I.C.
2. 
Eligibility criteria for the Eligible Municipality to access a Municipal
Performance Grant
Without limitation to the criteria specified in the PGM and the provisions of this
Section I.C, and except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, no Eligible
Municipality shall be eligible to receive a Municipal Performance Grant unless
the Borrower and the World Bank shall have jointly determined, on the basis of
guidelines and criteria specified in the PGM that the Eligible Municipality
satisfies the eligibility criteria, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a) 
Eligibility criteria to access Municipal Performance Grant in the first
year of Project execution:
(i) 
the Eligible Municipality has entered into a Grant Participation
Agreement (GPA), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
World 
Bank, 
that 
confirms 
the 
Eligible 
Municipality's
willingness to participate in the Project and to comply with
Project implementation conditions;
(ii) 
the Eligible Municipality has complied with the mandatory entry
criteria set forth in the PGM;
(iii) 
the Eligible Municipality has submitted its Annual Grant
Investment Plan and Budget; and
(iv) 
the Eligible Municipality has submitted its audited financial
statement related to its most recent Fiscal Year supported by an
acceptable auditor's opinion, defined as an opinion that has not
been disclaimed and it is not adverse.
(b) 
Eligibility criteria to access Municipal Performance Grant in the
subsequent years of Project execution:
(i) 
the Borrower and the World Bank have successfully completed
the PA specified in paragraph 5 of this Section I.C and have
-11-
determined the eligibility of each Eligible Municipality to
receive a Municipal Performance Grant in the corresponding
year;
(ii) 
the Eligible Municipality has submitted an updated Annual Grant
Investment Plan and Budget for the corresponding Fiscal Year,
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank;
(iii) 
the Eligible Municipality has submitted its audited financial
statement for the previous Fiscal Year supported by an
acceptable auditor's opinion, defined as an opinion that has not
been disclaimed and it is not adverse; and
(iv) 
the Eligible Municipality has submitted quarterly progress
reports to the PIU for Part A(i)(a) of the Project, including
information on implementation of Subprojects, as well as,
compliance with the ESMF and RPF and procurement plans.
3. 
Terms and Conditions for the financing of Subproiects
Without limitation to the criteria specified in the PGM and the provisions of
paragraph 5 of this Section I.C, and except as the World Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that each Eligible Municipality be responsible
for the prioritization and selection of the Subprojects, on the basis of guidelines
and criteria specified in the PGM, which shall include, inter alia, the following,
namely that Subprojects shall:
(a) 
be limited to those with a public benefit within the functional mandate of
the Eligible Municipality;
(b) 
reflect the needs and priorities of the Eligible Municipality approved by
the relevant municipal assembly;
(c) 
be subject to the negative list detailed in the PGM; and
(d) 
not be eligible for financing under Part A(i)(a) of the Project if they are
to be carried out in connection with an International Waterway or one of
its tributaries.
4. 
Terms and conditions of Grant Participation Agreements (GPA)
(a) 
Each Municipal Performance Grant shall be made available to the
Eligible Municipality under a GPA.
-12-
(b) 
The GPA, as set out in the model form in the PGM, shall be executed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, and shall
include, inter alia, the following provisions:
(i) 
the obligation of the Eligible Municipality to carry out the
Subproject in accordance with the PGM, the ESMF, the RPF and
the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines, 
with 
due diligence 
and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the World Bank;
(ii) 
the obligation of the Eligible Municipality to maintain adequate
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Subproject;
(iii) 
the requirement that: (1) the goods, works and services to be
financed from the proceeds of the Municipal Performance Grant
shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the PGM; and
(2) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in
carrying out the Subproject;
(iv) 
provisions regarding the terms and conditions to access the
Municipal 
Performance 
Grant, 
including 
eligibility 
and
disbursement conditions, performance incentives, and sanctions
for non-performance in accordance with this Agreement and the
PGM;
(v) 
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the
World Bank, if the World Bank shall so request, the goods,
works, sites or plans financed by a Municipal Performance
Grant, the operations thereof and any relevant records and
documents;
(vi) 
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information, as the
Borrower or the World Bank shall reasonably request, regarding
the administration, operation and financial management of the
Municipal Performance Grant; and
(vii) 
the right of Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the
Eligible Municipality to use or benefit from the use of the
proceeds of the Municipal Performance Grant upon failure by
the Eligible Municipality to perform any of its obligations under
the GPA.
-13-
(c) 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the parties to the GPA shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any provision of the GPA, which, in the opinion of the World
Bank, may materially and adversely affect the terms of the Municipal
Performance Grants and the implementation of Subprojects.
5. 
Performance Assessment
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall
ensure, at all times during the execution of the Project, that the following process
of assessments and reviews are carried out in accordance with the details set forth
in the PGM:
(a) 
the Borrower has hired a team of independent auditors, whose terms of
reference, qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the World
Bank, to verify the accuracy of the data provided by each Eligible
Municipality and to evaluate the Eligible Municipality's achievement of
targets and indicators, which shall include, inter alia, criteria related to:
(i) timely disbursement of Municipal Performance Grants for the relevant
Eligible Municipality; and (ii) documentary evidence to the effect that
the Eligible Municipality has improved its finances, urban planning and
land use management, in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank;
(b) 
each Eligible Municipality shall be required to meet those targets and
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the World Bank; and
(c) 
the results of the PA in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall be
incorporated into the Annual Performance Report to be submitted by the
Borrower to the World Bank no later than August 31 of each year,
following which the Borrower and the World Bank shall review the PA
results and jointly determine the continued eligibility of each Eligible
Municipality in the next year, which shall be communicated in
accordance with the PGM.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management 
Framework 
(ESMF) 
and 
the
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), and, except as the World Bank shall
-14-
otherwise agree in writing, shall not amend or waive any provision of the
aforementioned documents.
2. 
In the case of any resettlement activity under the Project involving Displaced
Persons, the Borrower shall ensure that no displacement or restriction of access
shall occur before necessary resettlement measures consistent with the RPF,
including, in the case of displacement, full payment to Displaced Persons of
compensation and of other assistance required for relocation, have taken place.
3. 
Without limitation to its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower, through DNDA and AIAS, shall submit to the World Bank on a
quarterly basis reports on the status of compliance with the ESMF and the RPF;
and giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such ESMF and RPF;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of such ESMF and RPF; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
4. 
All climate vulnerability assessments, spatial planning studies, land management
instruments, urban environmental 
instruments, surface water management
instruments, urban 
planning, 
land 
use and environmental 
management
methodologies, as well as all other advisory, analytical, planning, strategizing
and similar activities carried out or tools prepared under the Project, shall be
carried out or prepared, by or on behalf of the Borrower and municipalities,
according to terms of reference, satisfactory to the World Bank, calling for such
activities or tools to take into account, and be consistent with, the World Bank's
social and environmental safeguard policies.
F. 
Mid-Term Reviews
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
No later than thirty-six (36) months after the Effective Date carry out
jointly with the World Bank a mid-term review of the progress made in
carrying out the Project. As part of the midterm review, the Borrower
and the World Bank shall review a report prepared and submitted by the
PIUs one month in advance of the midterm review.
(b) 
Assess, during the mid-term review, inter alia: (i) the overall progress
made during the implementation of the Project, including the criteria,
-15-
quality and effectiveness of the PAs; and (ii) the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities.
(c) 
No later than thirty (30) days after the completion of the mid-term
review, start to implement the recommendations of the mid-term review
as agreed with the World Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports, through DNDA and AIAS, in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.08 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable
to the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after
the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the Standard
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare, through DNDA and AIAS, 
and furnish to the World Bank, as part of
the Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting services. 
All goods works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
-16-
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive 
Bidding. Except 
as 
otherwise 
provided 
in
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
3. 
Additional Procedures for National Competitive Bidding (NCB):
(a) 
General
The procedures to be followed for NCB shall be those set forth in the
Regulation, 
with the 
modifications 
described 
in the following
paragraphs.
(b) 
Eligibility
No restriction based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall
apply. Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB without
restriction and shall not be subject to any unjustified requirement which
will affect their ability to participate in the bidding process such as, but
not limited to, the proof that they are not under bankruptcy proceedings
-17-
in the Borrower's territory; have a local representative; have an attorney
resident and domiciled in the Borrower's territory; form a joint venture
with a local firm. In cases of joint ventures, they shall confirm joint and
several liability.
Prior registration, obtaining a license or agreement shall not be a
requirement for any bidder to participate in the bidding process.
Borrower's government-owned enterprises or institutions shall be
eligible to participate in the bidding process only if they can establish
that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law, and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower.
(c) 
Bidding Documents
Standard bidding documents acceptable to the World Bank shall be used
for any procurement process under NCB.
(d) 
Preferences
No domestic preference shall be given for domestic bidders and/or for
domestically manufactured goods.
(e) 
Applicable Procurement Method under the Regulation
Subject to these NCB exceptions, procurement under NCB shall be
carried out in accordance with the Regulation's public competition
(Concurso Piblico) method.
(f) 
Bid Preparation Time
Bidders shall be given at least twenty-eight (28) days from the date of
the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents,
whichever is later, to prepare and submit bids.
(g) 
Bid Opening
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for their
submission in accordance with the procedures stated in the bidding
documents.
(h) 
Bid Evaluation
(i) 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents, and all criteria so specified, and only such criteria so
specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is
qualified; the evaluation of the bidder's qualifications should be
conducted 
separately from the technical and commercial
evaluation of the bid. Qualification criteria shall be applied on a
pass or fail basis.
-18-
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the
criteria declared in the bidding documents; criteria other than
price shall be quantified in monetary terms.
(iii) 
A contract shall be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the
lowest-evaluated and substantially responsive bid.
(iv) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated on the basis of minor, non-
substantial deviations.
(i) 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the World
Bank's prior concurrence.
(j) 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
The Borrower shall establish an effective and independent complaint
mechanism allowing bidders to complain and to have their complaint
handled in a timely manner.
(k) 
Right to Inspect/Audit
In accordance with paragraph 1.16(e) of the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the
Financing shall provide that: (i) the bidders, suppliers, and contractors
and their subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers
or suppliers, shall permit the World Bank, at its request, to inspect their
accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of bids
and contract performance, and to have them audited by auditors
appointed by the World Bank; and (ii) the deliberate and material
violation by the bidder, supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such
provision 
may 
amount to 
obstructive 
practice 
as 
defined 
in
paragraph 1.16(a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines.
(1) 
Fraud and Corruption
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the
Financing shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and
corruption as defined in paragraph 
1.16(a) of the Procurement
Guidelines. The World Bank may sanction a firm or individual, at any
time, in accordance with prevailing World Bank sanctions procedures,
including by publicly declaring such firm or individual ineligible, either
indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a World
Bank-financed contract; and (ii) to be a nominated sub-contractor,
consultant, supplier or service provider of an otherwise eligible firm
being awarded an World Bank-financed contract.
-19-
(in) 
Debarment under National System
The World Bank may recognize, if requested by the Borrower, exclusion
from participation as a result of debarment under the national system,
provided that the debarment is for offenses involving fraud, corruption or
similar misconduct, and further provided that the World Bank confirms
that the particular debarment procedure afforded due process and the
debarment decision is final.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except 
as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
-20-
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Quality-Based Selection
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Single-Source Selection
(f) Least-Cost Selection
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.
E. 
Pre-qualification
The contracts in respect of Part B(ii)(c) of Schedule I to this Agreement shall be
subject to Prequalification in accordance with Bank procedures.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the World Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions); and to finance 
Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
-21-
Percentages
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
of
SCF/PPCR Loan 
SCF/PPCR 
Expenditures
Allocated 
Grant 
to be
Category 
Allocated 
Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(expressed in 
(Including
USD) 
taxes)
(1) Goods, works,
consultants' services
and non-consulting 
6,500,000 
8,250,000 
100%
services, under Part B
(vi) of the Project
(2) Goods, Consultants' 
0 
1,000,000 
100%
Services, Training and
Operating Costs under
Part B (v) of the Project
TOTAL 
6,500,000 
9,250,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this
Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 15, 2018.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Borrower shall continue to make FIlL transfers to Eligible Municipalities
during each year of Project implementation.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no contracts in respect of civil works shall be
entered into until the World Bank shall have approved the relevant RAP and
ESMP for each such contract.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no Subprojects shall be eligible for financing
under Part A(i) (a) of the Project if they are to be carried out in connection with
an International Waterway or one of its tributaries.
-22-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
Date Payment Due 
(expressed as a percentage)
On each 15 January and 15 July:
commencing January 15, 2015, to and including 
1%
July 15, 2034
commencing January 15, 2034, to and including 
2%
July 15, 2054
-23-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Annual Grant Investment Plan and Budget" means the detailed annual
investment plan and budget of an Eligible Municipality, prepared in accordance
with provisions of the Project Grants Manual as defined here below.
2. 
"AIAS" means Administraqdo de Infra-estructuras de Agua e Saneamento, the
Borrower's entity for water and sanitation infrastructure, within MOPH as
defined here below.
3. 
"Annual Performance Report" means the annual performance report referred to
in paragraph I.C.5(c) of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
4. 
"ANAMM" means Associaqao Nacional dos Municipios de Moqambique, the
Borrower's national municipal association
5. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the work plan and budget prepared
annually for the Project, in accordance with Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
9. 
"DNDA" means Direcqdo Nacional de Desenvolvimento Autdrquico, the
Borrower's National Directorate for Local Governance Development within
MAE, as defined here below.
10. 
"Displaced Person" means any person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
-24-
11. 
"Eligible Municipality" means a municipality which has met the eligibility
criteria specified in paragraph 2 of Section I.C. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and is eligible to receive a Municipal Performance Grant, and "Eligible
Municipalities" means the collective term thereof
12. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
framework disclosed in Mozambique on December 8, 2011, and at the World
Bank's Infoshop on the same date in form and substance satisfactory to the
World Bank, setting out modalities to be followed in assessing the potential
adverse environmental and social impact associated with activities to be
implemented under the Project, and the measures to be taken to offset, reduce, or
mitigate such adverse impact, as amended from time to time with the prior
written consent of the World Bank.
13. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means the plan
approved by the World Bank for the Project, to be prepared by the Borrower, as
required by the ESMF, proposing appropriate mitigation, monitoring and
institutional measures designed to mitigate potential adverse environmental and
resettlement impacts, offset them, reduce them to acceptable levels or enhance
positive impacts, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior
written consent of the World Bank.
14. 
"FIIL" means Fundo de Investimento de Inciativa Local, the Borrower's program
of transfers made on an annual basis by the Borrower to Eligible Municipalities
for the purpose of financing capital expenditures of its municipalities.
15. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year from each January 1 through
December 31.
16. 
"Grant Participation Agreement" or "GPA" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and an Eligible Municipality for the purposes of
providing a Municipal Performance Grant for the financing of a Subproject, as
the same may be amended from time to time, to the satisfaction of the World
Bank, and such term includes all schedules and amendments to the said
agreements.
17. 
"International Waterway" means an international waterway as this term is
defined under the World Bank Operational Policy 7.50.
18. 
"MAE" means Ministrio da Administraqdo Estatal, the Borrower's ministry of
state administration.
19. 
"MF" means Ministirio das Finangas, the Borrower's ministry of finance.
-25-
20. 
"MOPH" means Ministirio das Obras Publicas e Habitaqao, the Borrower's
ministry of public works and housing.
21. 
"Municipal Performance Grant" means a transfer to be made out of the proceeds
of the Loan by the Borrower to an Eligible Municipality for the carrying out of a
Subproject under Part A(i)(a) of the Project.
22. 
"Operating Costs" means Project expenditures, based on an annual budget
previously approved by the World Bank, that would not have been incurred by
the Borrower absent the Project, on the account of: (a) office utilities and
reasonable communications expenses (including Project's web-site hosting fees);
(b) office rental expenses; (c) Project's vehicles maintenance costs, fuel and
spare parts; (d) travel expenses and per diems exclusively related to Project
implementation; (e) operation and maintenance of office equipment; (f) insurance
costs; (g) routine translation of Project related documentation; (h) local
advertising costs pertaining to Project related matters; and (i) salaries for
administrative staff of the PIUs (except for salaries of Borrower's civil servants)
and except for cash compensation and land acquisition expenses to be financed
by the Borrower as part of the RAP, if any.
23. 
"Performance Assessment" or "PA" means the annual assessment referred to in
paragraph 5 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for the purpose of
extending a Municipal Performance Grant to an Eligible Municipality for the
second and subsequent years of Project implementation.
24. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
25. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 13, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
26. 
"Project Grants Manual" or "PGM" means the Borrower's manual, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank, pursuant to Section I.B.l of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, containing or referring to detailed arrangements and
procedures for implementation of Part A(i)(a) of the Project, including in relation
to: (i) terms and conditions for Municipal Performance Grants; (ii) eligibility
criteria for Municipal Performance Grants; (iii) guidelines and criteria for the
prioritization and selection of Subprojects; (iv) a model GPA referred to in
Section I.C.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (v) the negative list referred to in
Section I.C.3(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (vi) the framework to be
followed for the PAs; and (vii) such other administrative, financial, technical and
organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the
-26-
implementation of Part A(i)(a) of the Project, as such manual may be amended
by the Borrower from time to time with the prior agreement of the World Bank.
27. 
"Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the Borrower's manual, in
form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank,, containing or referring to
detailed arrangements and procedures for implementation of the Project, except
for Part A(i)(a) of the Project, including in relation to: (i) day-to-day execution of
the of the Project; (ii) disbursement and financial management; (iii) procurement;
(iv) monitoring, evaluation, and reporting; (v) procedures, measures and
guidelines for environmental management and implementation of the ESMF and
the RPF; (vi) the Annual Work Plan and Budget for the first year of Project
implementation; and (vii) such other administrative, financial, technical and
organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project,
as such manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time with the
prior agreement of the World Bank.
28. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means each of the implementation units
referred to in Section I.A.1(a) and (b), respectively, of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
29. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the Borrower's document prepared
and disclosed in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework with
respect to the Project, which, inter alia: (i) contains a census survey of Displaced
Persons and valuation of assets; (ii) 
describes compensation and other
resettlement assistance to be provided, consultation to be conducted with
Displaced Persons about acceptable alternatives, institutional responsibilities for
the implementation and procedures for grievance redress, and arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) contains a timetable and budget for the
implementation of such measures, as amended from time to time with the prior
written consent of the World Bank.
30. 
"Regulation" means the Borrower's Rules on Procurement of Works, Provision
of Goods and Services, (Regulamento de Contratacao de Empreitada de Obras
Publicas, Fornecimento de Bens e Prestacao de Servicos ao Estado) published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette (Boletim da Republica) on May 24, 2010.
31. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework disclosed in
Mozambique on December 8, 2011, and at the World Bank's Infoshop on the
same date containing guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications
for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to
Displaced Persons, as amended from time to time with the prior written consent
of the World Bank.
32. 
"SCF-PPCR Grant Agreement" means the Strategic Climate Fund (SCF)-Pilot
Program for Climate Resilience (PPRC) Grant Agreement, of even date hereof,
-27-
entered into by the World Bank, acting as an implementing entity of the SCF-
PPRC and the Borrower to assist in the financing of the Project.
33. 
"SCF-PPCR Grant" means the grant in the amount of nine million two hundred
and fifty thousand Dollars (USD9,250,000) provided by the World Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project pursuant to the SCF/PPRC Grant Agreement.
34. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 15, 2012.
35. 
"Subprojects" means small-scale investments which meet the terms and
conditions specified under Section I.C.3 of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
in the Project Implementation Manual, financed or to be financed through
Municipal Performance Grants under Part A(i) (a) of the Project.
36. 
"Training" means the costs associated with the training of personnel involved in
Project supported activities under the Project, based on an annual plan approved
by the World Bank, including travel costs and per diems for training participants,
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly
related to course preparation and implementation
