rOOCOENT~
LOAN NUMBER 8440-MA
Loan Agreement
(Noor-Ouarzazate Concentrated Solar Power Plant Project)
between
INTERNAl IONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MORO( CAN AGENCY FOR SOLAR ENERGY
Dated December 19,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8440-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dattd December 19, 2014, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and MOROCCAN
AGENCY FOR SOLAR El ERGY ("Borrower").
WHEREAS: (A) K ngdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having
been satisfied as to the fea. ibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, have reque sted the Bank to assist in the financing of Part 1.A, Part 1.C
and Part 2 of the Project;
(B) 
by an agree ment (the IBRD Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the Loan
Payment obligations of the I lorrower in respect of the Loan;
(C) 
by an agret ment of even date herewith (the CTF Loan Agreement), the
Bank, acting as the imple nenting agency of the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) has
agreed to make a loan (the CTF Loan) to the Borrower in the amount of one hundred
nineteen million Dollars ($119,000,000) to assist in financing Part L.A and Part 1.C of the
Project on the terms and cot ditions set forth in the CTF Loan Agreement;
(D) 
by an agre.ment (CTF Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the Loan
payment obligations of the Borrower in respect of the CTF Loan; and
WHEREAS the BEnk has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the I orrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
The Bank and the E orrower hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integr .1 part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the conteN t requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have th,- meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to thi; Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this A greement: (a) the amount of two hundred thirty-four million
five hundred thous and Euros (E234,500,000); and (b) the amount of eighty
million Dollars ($8 ),000,000), as such amounts may be converted from time to
time through a Curr -ncy Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.07 of this Agreen lent ("Loan"), to assist in financing Part I.A, Part 1.C and
Part 2 of the projec: described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower mal withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schec ule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee >ayable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of ihe Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payabl. by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Refer nce Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the intere st payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall )e determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the 3eneral Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the With irawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower 
shall 
instead 
be 
calculated 
as 
provided 
in
Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January I and July 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amc unt of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Sched ule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrov er may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the term of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portio i of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any )ortion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable SI read to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variabl Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan v ithdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable SI read to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
-3-
setting of 1 mits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any )ortion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstandinj by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on th te Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conve sion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the Gent eral Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions )f Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower decl tres its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause Part 1.A of the Project to be carried out by the
Second Plant Projict Implementing Entity and Part 1.C of the Project to be
carried out by the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity, and shall carry out
Part 1.B, Part 1 .D nd Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the Ge ieral Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Pr ject is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this /.greement.
ARTIC LE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Basic Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower t) perform any of its obligations under this Agreement, or to
achieve the objectives of the Project.
(b) 
The Conve itions have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower z nd/or the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and/or
the Third )lant Project Implementing Entity to perform any of their
obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project.
(c) 
Any party t any of the Conventions or any of the agreements referred to
in Sections IV.B.1.(b)(i)(E), IV.B.1.(b)(i)(H) and IV.B.1.(b)(i)(I), and
Sections 
1V.B.L(c)(i)(E), 
IV.B.1.(c)(i)(H) 
and 
IV.B.I.(c)(i)(I) 
of
Schedule : to this Agreement has: (i) failed to perform any of its
-4-
obligations under any of such Conventions or agreements and such
default has Lffected materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower
and/or the 
econd Plant Project Implementing Entity and/or the Third
Plant Project Implementing Entity to perform any of their obligations
under this A greement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project; or (ii)
terminated z ny of the Conventions or any of such agreements and such
termination has affected materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower ai d/or the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and/or
the Third P [ant Project Implementing Entity to perform any of their
obligations inder this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project.
4.02. 
The Additional EveT ts of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
Any event ! pecified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs.
(b) 
The event s )ecified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and i; continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been gi- -n by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE I I- 
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Con lition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the CTF Loan Agrnement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effi!ctiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been satisfied c r waived.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness E eadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreemc nt.
ARTICLE 'l -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Re )resentative is the President of its Management Board
(Directoire).
6.02. 
The Borrower's Adc ress is:
Moroccan Agency for Solar Energy
Immeuble Extensior CMR; third floor
Avenue Al Araar
Hay Riad
10014, Rabat
Kingdom of Morocc:)
-5-
Facsimile:
(212) 537 57 14 -5
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 0433
United States of Ai ierica
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Raba, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Autho rized Repres 
tative
Name: Simon Gray
Title: Country Director
MOROCCAN 
AGENCY 
FOR 
SOLAR
ENERGY
By
horized Representative
Name: Mustapha Bakkoury
Title: Prdsident du Directoire
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of thi Project is to increase: (a) installed capacity (megawatt); and
(b) electricity output (me gawatt-hour), especially during peak hours, of the Noor-
Ouarzazate Solar Complex.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Financing the Initia Investment
A. 
Development of the Second Plant through the formation of a partnership between
the Borrower and a competitively selected partner.
B. 
Construction of the Second Plant Associated Facilities.
C. 
Development of thc Third Plant through the formation of a partnership between
the Borrower and a competitively selected partner.
D. 
Construction of the Third Plant Associated Facilities.
Part 2: Cost Mitigation Me -hanism
A. 
Supporting the acq fisition of kilowatt-hours produced by the First Plant Project
Implementing Entity to partially cover the difference in the price at which the
Borrower would bt y the electricity generated by the First Plant and the price at
which the Borrowet would sell such electricity to ONEE.
B. 
Supporting the acquisition of kilowatt-hours produced by the Second Plant
Project Implementi ig Entity to partially cover the difference in the price at which
the Borrower woul i buy the electricity generated by the Second Plant and the
price at which the F orrower would sell such electricity to ONEE.
C. 
Supporting the acqi isition of kilowatt-hours produced by the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entity to partially cover the difference in the price at which the
Borrower would bL y the electricity generated by the Third Plant and the price at
which the Borrowei would sell such electricity to ONEE.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implement ition Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrar gements
1. 
The Borrower sha 1 cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity,
including as the cas- may be through exercising its voting powers in relation to
the Second Plant Pr )ject Implementing Entity and all powers of control available
in relation to its no ninee to the Supervisory Board of the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entit,', to implement Part 1.A of the Project in accordance with the
MASEN Financial Management and Disbursement Manual, the MASEN
Governance Framt work , the Second Plant Financial Management 
and
Disbursement Mar ual, the Second Plant Governance Framework and all
agreements referre I to in Sections IV.B.1(b)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(b)(i)(I) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall not, and shall cause the
Second Plant Proje ct Implementing Entity not to amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive: (i any provision of the MASEN Financial Management and
Disbursement Manual, the MASEN Governance Framework, the Second Plant
Financial Manager ient and Disbursement Manual, and the Second Plant
Governance Frame work without prior approval of the Bank; and (ii) any
provision of any agreement referred to in 
Sections IV.B.1(b)(i)(H) and
IV.B.1(b)(i)(I) of S(hedule 2 to this Agreement, if such amendment, suspension,
abrogation, repeal cr waiver would affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower and/cr the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity to perform
any of its obligatiois under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project. In addition, the Borrower shall not, and shall cause the Second Plant
Project Implementit g Entity not to assign their respective rights under any of the
agreements referre I to in Sections IV.B.1(b)(i)(H) and IV.B.I(b)(i)(I) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement without prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity, including
as the case may be through exercising its voting powers in relation to the Third
Plant Project Implementing Entity and all powers of control available in relation
to its nominee to th- Supervisory Board of the Third Plant Project Implementing
Entity, to impleme-it Part 1.C of the Project in accordance with the MASEN
Financial Managen tent and Disbursement Manual, the MASEN Governance
Framework, the Th rd Plant Financial Management and Disbursement Manual,
the Third Plant Covemance Framework and all agreements referred to in
Sections IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) and IV.B.I(c)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
The Borrower shal not, and shall cause the Third Plant Project Implementing
Entity not to amenc, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive: (i) any provision of the
MASEN Financial Management and Disbursement Manual, the MASEN
-8-
Governance 
Frame work, 
the 
Third 
Plant 
Financial 
Management 
and
Disbursement Manu; ., and the Third Plant Governance Framework without prior
approval of the Bar k; and (ii) any provision of any agreement referred to in
Sections IV.B.1(c)(i (H) and IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, if
such amendment, 
;uspension, abrogation, repeal or waiver would affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower and/or the Third Plant
Project Implementih g Entity to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement, or to acl ieve the objectives of the Project. In addition, the Borrower
shall not, and shall cause the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity not to
assign their respectii e rights under any of the agreements referred to in Sections
IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) and I V.B.1(c)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement without prior
approval of the Banl.
3. 
The Borrower shall: i) maintain the Project Management Unit at all times during
the implementation )f the Project with qualified staff and adequate resources;
and (ii) cause the Se cond Plant Project Implementing Entity and the Third Plant
Project Implementi ig Entity to be maintained at all times during the
implementation of tlh e Project with qualified staff and adequate resources.
4. 
The Borrower shall inform the Bank, and shall cause the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entity to inform the Borrower of: (i) any failure by any party to
any of the Conven ions and any of the agreements referred to in Sections
IV.B.1(b)(i)(E), IV.3.1(b)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(b)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to 
this
Agreement, to perfo: m any of its obligations under any of such Conventions and
agreements, when st ch default may affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower and/oi the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity to perform
any of their obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project, or (ii) any failure or violation by any such party, to the best of the
Borrower's knowledge, of any law, regulation, decree, or order that could
reasonably be expec ed to materially adversely affect the violating party's ability
to perform its oblil ations under any of the Conventions and any applicable
agreement referred to in 
Sections 
IV.B.1(b)(i)(E), 
IV.B.1(b)(i)(H) 
and
IV.B. 1 (b)(i)(I) of Sc hedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall inform the
Bank, and shall cau ;e the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity to inform
the Borrower, of an" dispute involving any party to any of the Conventions and
any of the agreements referred to in Sections IV.B.1(b)(i)(E), IV.B.1(b)(i)(H)
and IV.B.1(b)(i)(I) )f Schedule 2 to this Agreement and regarding any such
Conventions and agreements, when such dispute may affect materially and
adversely the abil ty of the Borrower and/or the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entity to perform any of their obligations under this Agreement, or
to achieve the object ves of the Project.
5. 
The Borrower shall inform the Bank, and shall cause the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entit) to inform the Borrower of: (i) any failure by any party to
any of the Conven:ions and any of the agreements referred to in Sections
-9-
IV.B.1(c)(i)(E), P.B.I(c)(i)(H) and IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, to perf )rm any of its obligations under any of such Conventions and
agreements, when ;uch default may affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower and/< r the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to perform any
of their obligation; under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the
Project; or (ii) an:, failure or violation by any such party, to the best of the
Borrower's knowl -dge, of any law, regulation, decree, or order that could
reasonably be expe zted to materially adversely affect the violating party's ability
to perform its obligations under any of the Conventions and any applicable
agreement 
referred to in 
Sections 
IV.B.1(c)(i)(E), 
IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) 
and
IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall inform the
Bank, and shall cai ise the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to inform the
Borrower, of any dispute involving any party to any of the Conventions and any
of the agreements referred to in Sections IV.B.1(c)(i)(E), IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) and
IV.B.1(c)(i)(I) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and regarding any such
Conventions and tgreements, when such dispute may affect materially and
adversely the ab lity of the Borrower and/or the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entil y to perform any of their obligations under this Agreement, or
to achieve the objet tives of the Project
6. 
Not later than nine months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall contract
an independent ve rification expert satisfactory to the Bank, under terms of
reference satisfactc ry to the Bank, to carry out technical audits and prepare the
technical audit reports regarding the implementation of Part L.A and Part 1.C of
the Project, and o * the Second Plant EPC Contract and the Third Plant EPC
Contract referred tc in Section II.B.3 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
B. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1. 
To facilitate the c;.rrying out of Part 1.A of the Project by the Second Plant
Project Implementi ig Entity, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category 1 of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2
of this Schedule an i the proceeds of the AfDB Second Plant Co-financing I, the
AfDB Second Plan Co-financing II, the EIB Second Plant Co-financing, and the
KfW Second Pla it Co-financing available to the Second Plant Project
Implementing Enti y as a loan or loans under one or more subsidiary loan
agreements betwee i the Borrower and the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity, under tern s and conditions approved by the Bank ("Second Plant
Subsidiary Loan A ;reements"), including the commitments of the Second Plant
Project Implementi ig Entity set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the
right of the Borrower to suspend disbursements under such Second Plant
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in case of non-compliance by the Second Plant
Project Implementi ig Entity.
- 10 -
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and shall cause the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entity to exercise its rights under the Second Plant Subsidiary
Loan Agreements it such manner as to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) not assign,
abrogate or waive at y of the Second Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of
their respective prov.sions; and (ii) cause the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity not to assign, abrogate or waive any of the Second Plant Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any c f their respective provisions. The Borrower shall not amend,
and shall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity not to amend any
of the Second Plan: Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of their respective
provisions without t ie prior approval of the Bank. Such prior approval shall be
deemed to have bee i granted by the Bank in the absence of response from the
Bank within fifteen (15) days from the date on which a request for prior approval
shall have been com nunicated by the Borrower to the Bank.
3. 
To facilitate the carr ting out of Part L.C of the Project by the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entity the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time tc Category 2 of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this
Schedule and the pn oceeds of the AFD Co-financing, the AfDB Third Plant Co-
financing I, the Afl)B Third Plant Co-financing II, the EIB Third Plant Co-
financing, and the HfW Third Plant Co-financing available to the Third Plant
Project Implementin,; Entity as a loan or loans under one or more subsidiary loan
agreements between the Borrower and the Third Plant Project Implementing
Entity, under term! and conditions approved by the Bank ("Third Plant
Subsidiary Loan Ag reements"), including the commitments of the Third Plant
Project Implementin ) Entity set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the
right of the Borrower to suspend disbursements under such Third Plant
Subsidiary Loan Alreements in case of non-compliance by the Third Plant
Project Implementin ; Entity.
4. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and shall cause the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entity to exercise its rights under the Third Plant Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such: nanner as to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as
the Bank shall othei wise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) not assign, abrogate or
waive any of the Third Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of their
respective provisiom; and (ii) cause the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity
not to assign, abro gate or waive any of the Third Plant Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any of their respective provisions. The Borrower shall not amend,
and shall cause the 1 hird Plant Project Implementing Entity not to amend any of
the Third Plant Subs diary Loan Agreements or any of their respective provisions
without the prior approval of the Bank. Such prior approval shall be deemed to
have been granted b: the Bank in the absence of response from the Bank within
fifteen (15) days fro n the date on which a request for prior approval shall have
been communicated )y the Borrower to the Bank.
- 11 -
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall (i) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of thi Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and (ii) cause the Second Plant
Project Implementing Entity and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to
ensure that the Pro ect is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Gu delines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower sha 1: (i) maintain within the Project Management Unit, an
environmental and ocial safeguards unit, including an environmental and social
safeguard coordina or with terms of reference and qualifications, budget and
material support ad equate to supervise the implementation of, and compliance
with the FESIA; arid (ii) cause each of the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity and the Thin Plant Project Implementing Entity to establish and maintain
an environmental a rd social unit adequate to supervise the preparation of the
relevant SESIAs, Jurther implement the relevant SESMP and report to the
Borrower on imple nentation of all mitigation measures, including health and
safety.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each of the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity
and the Third Pla it Project Implementing Entity: (i) not to authorize any
commencement of civil works to build the Second Plant or Third Plant, as
applicable, before he relevant SESIA is prepared, adopted and disclosed in
accordance with the FESIA; (ii) to disclose all relevant safeguard-related
documentation regE rding Part I of the Project, including the SESIAs; (iii) to
construct and oper ite the Second Plant and the Third Plant at all times in
compliance with th,- relevant SESIAs and the Plant-site LAPs; and (iv) not to
amend, suspend, a] rogate, repeal or waive any provision of the SESIAs, the
Plant-site LAPs or any Associated Facility ESIAs, if applicable, without prior
consultation with, and approval of the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shal : (i) disclose all relevant safeguard-related documentation
regarding Part 1 of :he Project, including the Common Infrastructure ESIAs, the
SESIAs, the SESMPs, and any mitigation measures and/or environmental
management plans, as appropriate, for any of the Second Plant Associated
Facilities and Thin Plant Associated Facilities; (ii) construct and operate the
Second Plant and t ie Third Plant at all times in compliance with the relevant
Common Infrastructure ESIAs and the Plant-site LAPs; and (iii) not amend,
suspend, abrogate, iepeal or waive any provision of the Common Infrastructure
ESIAs or the Plant-! ite LAPs without prior consultation with, and approval of the
Bank.
- 12 -
4. 
The Borrower 
s hall: 
(i) 
cause Associated 
Facilities 
ESIAs 
including
environmental mar agement plans for any Second Plant Associated Facilities and
any Third Plant As ;ociated Facilities to be developed in a manner consistent with
the provisions of the FESIA; (ii) provide the Bank with the relevant draft
Associated Faciliti ,s ESIA for its comments and feedback on such documents;
and (iii) inform the Bank about the status of the preparation and adoption of the
final Associated Yacilities ESIA, including any mitigation measures and/or
environmental mal agement plan as appropriate, for any of such Second Plant
Associated Facilitics or the Third Plant Associated Facilities.
5. 
The Borrower shal ensure that due diligence is carried out to assess any need for
land acquisition an d/or involuntary resettlement for a particular activity prior to
commencing civil works for such activity. In case land acquisition and/or
involuntary resettl.ment would be required for any Second Plant Associated
Facilities or the Th rd Plant Associated Facilities or for any activity related to the
Second Plant or the Third Plant, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure thz t LAPs be prepared either: (i) in case of involuntary
resettlemet t, in compliance with the requirements and procedures set
forth in tht RPF; or (ii) in case of voluntary land acquisition, including
supporting documentary evidence proving the voluntary nature of the
transaction
(b) 
provide th - Bank with copies of such LAPs for its review and
concurrenc: before the commencement of any related civil works;
(c) 
ensure thai prior to commencing civil works for the relevant Second
Plant Associated Facility, Third Plant Associated Facility, or any
relevant activity related to the Second Plant or to the Third Plant, all
resettlemer t measures set forth in the relevant LAP in relation to the
specific ci- il work shall have been fully executed, including the full
payment of compensation; and
(d) 
in case of involuntary land acquisition, ensure that such LAPs are
adopted an I disclosed by the relevant parties.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the Second Plant Associated Facilities and the
Third Plant Associ ted Facilities shall be constructed, operated and implemented
in accordance wit i the RPF, the Associated Facility ESIAs (including any
mitigation measui es and/or environmental 
management plans), and the
Associated Facility LAPs, as applicable; and (ii) no provision of the RPF, the
Associated 
Facilil!y 
ESIAs 
(including 
any 
mitigation 
measures 
and/or
environmental mar agement plans), and the Associated Facility LAPs, shall be
amended, suspendc d, abrogated, repealed or waived without prior consultation
with, and approval )f the Bank.
- 13 -
7. 
The Borrower shall (i) cause each of the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to prepare and submit to
the Borrower an en vironmental and social management report on a bi-annual
basis during the con;truction of the Second Plant and the Third Plant, and on an
annual basis during operation of the Second Plant and the Third Plant; and (ii)
include a summary )f such reports in the Project Reports referred to in Section
II.A of this Scheduk 2.
8. 
Not later than six (6 months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall prepare
a progress report on the implementation of the SDP and provide such report to
the Bank for its com nents and recommendations.
Section II. 
Project Montitoring Reportina and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall :ause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of
Part L.A of the Proje:zt and Part 1.C of the Project, respectively, shall monitor and
evaluate the progre! s of Part 2 of the Project and prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of indicatoi s acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calend ir semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) after i he end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Managen ent, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordar ce with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall )repare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end o 'each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project cove -ing the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
With respect to eac. i withdrawal application under Category (1), the Borrower
shall prepare and fur mish to the Bank an interim unaudited financial report for the
Project covering the time period agreed with the Bank, in a form and substance
agreed by the Born wer and the Bank. Each such interim unaudited financial
report shall include he technical audit report, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, to be p -epared by the independent verification expert referred to in
Section I.A.6 of thi; Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Each such technical audit
report shall be focus ed in particular on: (i) the achievement of the milestones set
- 14 -
forth in the Seco id Plant EPC Contract; and (ii) compliance with pricing
provisions set forth in the Second Plant EPC Contract.
4. 
With respect to ea h withdrawal application under Category (2), the Borrower
shall prepare and fi rnish to the Bank an interim unaudited financial report for the
Project covering the time period agreed with the Bank, in a form and substance
agreed by the Bor -ower and the Bank. Each such interim unaudited financial
report shall includc the technical audit report, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, to be )repared by the independent verification expert referred to in
Section I.A.6 of tf is Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Each such technical audit
report shall be foci sed in particular on: (i) the achievement of the milestones set
forth in the Thin I Plant EPC Contract; and (ii) compliance with pricing
provisions set forth in the Third Plant EPC Contract.
5. 
With respect to eac i withdrawal application under Categories (3), (4) and (5), the
Borrower shall pre care and furnish to the Bank an interim unaudited financial
report for the Projt ct covering the time period agreed with the Bank, in a form
and substance agi eed by the Borrower and the Bank. Each such interim
unaudited financial report shall include a report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by an independent verification expert,
satisfactory to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
certifying that the a mount of the relevant Solar Incremental Cost is correct as per
the provisions of tie First Plant Power Purchase Agreement, the Second Plant
Power Purchase AE reement or the Third Plant Power Purchase Agreement, as the
case may be, the Fi -st Plant Power Sale Agreement, the Second Plant Power Sale
Agreement or the Third Plant Power Sale Agreement, as the case may be, the
Conventions and at y other relevant document.
6. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Sect on 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statemen:s shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
7. 
The Borrower shall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Projec Implementing Entity to maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standar s acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect
the operations and 'inancial condition of the Second Plant Project Implementing
Entity and the Thin I Plant Project Implementing Entity, including the operations,
resources and expei ditures related to the Project.
8. 
The Borrower shall cause the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Proje t Implementing Entity to have their financial statements
referred to in paral raph 7 above audited by independent auditors acceptable to
- 15-
the Bank, in accorc ance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable
to the Bank. Each a idit of these financial statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the S ,cond Plant Project Implementing Entity and the Third Plant
Project Implementii ig Entity. The Borrower shall cause the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entit i and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to ensure
that the audited fine ncial statements for each period shall be: (a) furnished to the
Borrower for transmission to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end
of the period; and (1) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the BE nk.
Section III. 
Procureme at
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for Part 1.A and Part 1.C of the Project and to be
financed out of the 1roceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set foi th or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and with the provisi ns of this Section.
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurem,-nt methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines.
B. 
Particular Methot of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
Procurement unler Public 
Private Partnership Arrangements: 
the
entrepreneurs respo isible for the development of the Second Plant and the Third
Plant shall be selec ed through open competitive bidding procedures determined
acceptable by the B ink in accordance with paragraph 3.14 (a) of the Procurement
Guidelines.
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The contract for the selection of the entrepreneurs responsible for the
development of the Second Plant and the Third Plant referred in Section III.B
above shall be subjc ct to the Bank's Prior Review.
- 16 -
Section IV. 
Withdraw:il of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower ma) withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Artizle II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised fr m time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuar t to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following tabb specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Lo, n to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
A mount of the 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Allocated 
financed
(-xpressed in 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
EUR)
(1) Goods, 
works 
10,339,000 
13,766,000 
3.2% up to June 30),
and 
non- 
2015, 
and 
7.5%
consulting 
afterwards
services 
for
Part L.A of the
Project
(2) Goods, 
works 
18,267,000 
6,234,000 
1.9% up to June 30,
and 
non- 
2015, 
and 
4.5%
consulting 
afterwards
services 
for
Part 1.C of the
Project
(3) Purchase 
of 
54,993,000 
18,767,000 
100% of the Solar
electricity 
for 
Incremental Cost
Part 2.A of the
Project
(4) Purchase 
of 
71,276,000 
24,324,000 
100% of the Solar
electricity 
for 
Incremental Cost
Part 2.B of the
Project
- 17 -
(5) Purchase 
of 
25,597,000 
8,709,000 
100% of the Solar
electricity 
for 
Incremental Cost
Part 2.C of the
Project
(6) Front-end Fee 
586,000 
200,000 
Amount 
payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the 
General
Conditions
(7) Unallocated 
2 3,442,000 
8,000,000
TOTAL 
234,500,000 
80,000,000
AMOUNT
(a) 
For the purposes of 2ategory (3), the Solar Incremental Cost shall be calculated
as follows:
Sc lar Incremental Cost = (A - B) - C
"A" shall be equal to the am :unt paid for a specific quantity of electricity bought by the
Borrower from the First Plai it Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the provisions of
the First Plant Power Purcha .e Agreement;
"B" shall be equal to the am nount received by the Borrower from ONEE for the same
quantity of electricity pursua it to the provisions of the First Plant Power Sale Agreement;
and
"C" shall be equal to the ar iount of the contribution, if any, received by the Borrower
from the Kingdom of Mor cco pursuant to the provisions of the First Plant Specific
Convention to compensate ft r the price difference between "A" and "B".
(b) 
For the purposes of category (4), the Solar Incremental Cost shall be calculated
as follows:
Sc lar Incremental Cost = (A - B) - C
"A" shall be equal to the amount paid for a specific quantity of electricity bought by the
Borrower from the Second I lant Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the provisions
of the Second Plant Power P irchase Agreement;
- 18 -
"B" shall be equal to the a mount received by the Borrower from ONEE for the same
quantity of electricity pur ;uant to the provisions of the Second Plant Power Sale
Agreement; and
"C" shall be equal to the a nount of the contribution, if any, received by the Borrower
from the Kingdom of Mor(cco pursuant to the provisions of the Second Plant Specific
Convention to compensate f )r the price difference between "A" and "B".
(c) 
For the purposes of Category (5), the Solar Incremental Cost shall be calculated
as follows:
Solar Incremental Cost = (A - B) - C
"A" shall be equal to the am ount paid for a specific quantity of electricity bought by the
Borrower from the Third P nt Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the provisions of
the Third Plant Power Purcl ase Agreement;
"B" shall be equal to the amount received by the Borrower from ONEE for the same
quantity of electricity puisuant to the provisions of the Third Plant Power Sale
Agreement; and
"C" shall be equal to the a nount of the contribution, if any, received by the Borrower
from the Kingdom of Morocco pursuant to the provisions of the Third Plant Specific
Convention to compensate f )r the price difference between "A" and "B".
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding tht provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawah up to an aggregate amount not to exceed E46,900,000 and
$16,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after Januaiy 15, 2015, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1)
and (2); or
(b) 
under Category (1), until:
(i) 
evi(.ence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the Bank
thal the following conditions have been satisfied:
(A) 
The Second Plant Project Implementing Entity has been
legally established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
- 19 -
(B) 
The Second Plant Project Implementing Entity has
established an accounting and financial management
system satisfactory to the Bank.
(C) 
The Second Plant Project Implementing Entity has
adopted the Second Plant Financial Management and
Disbursement Manual, satisfactory to the Bank and the
Co-financiers.
(D) 
The Second Plant Project Implementing Entity has
adopted the Second Plant Governance Framework,
satisfactory to the Bank.
(E) 
The Second Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements have
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Second
Plant Project Implementing Entity and all conditions
precedent to their effectiveness and to the right of the
Second Plant Project Implementing Entity to make
withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have been satisfied or waived.
(F) 
All conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under Category (1) in the table in
Section IV of Schedule 2 to the CTF Loan Agreement
have been satisfied or waived.
(G) 
The Borrower and the Kingdom of Morocco have
entered into the Second Plant Specific Convention.
(H) 
Execution and satisfaction or waiver of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness and, to the extent
applicable, to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement), of all the following agreements:
1. 
the 
AfDB 
Second 
Plant 
Co-financing
Agreements;
2. 
the EC Second Plant Co-financing Agreement;
3. 
the EIB Second Plant Co-financing Agreement;
and
4. 
the KfW Second Plant Co-financing Agreement.
- 20 -
(I) 
Execution and satisfaction or waiver of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness and, to the extent
applicable, to the right of the Borrower or of the Second
Plant Project Implementing Entity to make withdrawals
under them (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement), of all other agreements, to be found
satisfactory by the Bank in form and substance within
reasonable time, required to finance, construct, own, and
operate the Second Plant, including, but not limited to:
I. 
the Second Plant EPC Contract;
2. 
the Second Plant Operation and Maintenance
Agreement;
3. 
the Second Plant Power Purchase Agreement;
4. 
the Second Plant Power Sale Agreement; and
5. 
the Second Plant Shareholders' Agreement.
(ii) 
Tht Bank has been furnished with opinions satisfactory to the
Bai k of counsels acceptable to the Bank, showing that the
Second Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
aut Aorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Second Plant
Pro ect Implementing Entity, and are legally binding upon the
Boirower and the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity in
acc )rdance with their terms.
(iii) 
The Bank has been furnished with opinions satisfactory to the
Bai k of counsels acceptable to the Bank, showing that each of
the agreements referred to in paragraph (b)(iXI) above has been
dul / authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto, and is
legu lly binding upon each of the parties thereto in accordance
wit i its terms.
(iv) 
The Borrower shall have provided to the Bank, with respect to
eac i withdrawal application, the relevant interim unaudited
fim ncial report for the Project, including the report referred to in
Section II.B.3 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in form and
sub ;tance satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) 
under Catel ory (2), until:
-21 -
(i) 
evi lence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the Bank
tha the following conditions have been satisfied;
(A 
The Third Plant Project Implementing Entity has been
legally established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(B) 
The Third Plant Project Implementing 
Entity has
established an accounting and financial management
system satisfactory to the Bank.
(C) 
The Third Plant Project Implementing Entity has
adopted the Third Plant Financial Management and
Disbursement Manual, satisfactory to the Bank and the
Co-financiers.
(D, 
The Third Plant Project Implementing Entity has
adopted 
the Third Plant Governance 
Framework,
satisfactory to the Bank.
(E) 
The Third Plant Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Third Plant
Project Implementing Entity and all conditions precedent
to their effectiveness and to the right of the Third Plant
Project Implementing Entity to make withdrawals under
them (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been satisfied or waived.
(F) 
All conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under Category (2) in the table in
Section IV of Schedule 2 to the CTF Loan Agreement
have been satisfied or waived.
(G) 
The Borrower and the Kingdom of Morocco have
entered into the Third Plant Specific Convention.
(H) 
Execution and satisfaction or waiver of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness and, to the extent
applicable, to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement), of all the following agreements:
1. 
the AFD Co-financing Agreement;
2. 
the AfDB Third Plant Co-financing Agreements;
- 22 -
3. 
the EC Third Plant Co-financing Agreement;
4. 
the EIB Third Plant Co-financing Agreement;
and
5. 
the KfW Third Plant Co-financing Agreement.
(I) 
Execution and satisfaction or waiver of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness and, to the extent
applicable, to the right of the Borrower or of the Third
Plant Project Implementing Entity to make withdrawals
under them (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement), of all other agreements, to be found
satisfactory by the Bank in form and substance within
reasonable time, required to finance, construct, own, and
operate the Third Plant, including, but not limited to:
1. 
the Third Plant EPC Contract;
2. 
the Third Plant Operation and Maintenance
Agreement;
3. 
the Third Plant Power Purchase Agreement;
4. 
the Third Plant Power Sale Agreement; and
5. 
the Third Plant Shareholders' Agreement.
(ii) 
The Bank has been furnished with opinions satisfactory to the
Bar k of counsels acceptable to the Bank, showing that the Third
Plat Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratii led by the Borrower 
and the Third Plant Project
Imr lementing Entity, and are legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity in accordance
wit! their terms.
(iii) 
The Bank has been furnished with opinions satisfactory to the
Bank of counsels acceptable to the Bank, showing that each of
the agreements referred to in paragraph (c)(i)(I) above has been
dul) authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto, and is
legz Ily binding upon each of the parties thereto in accordance
witl its terms.
(iv) 
The Borrower shall have provided to the Bank, with respect to
eacl 
withdrawal application, the relevant interim unaudited
- 23 -
fin mcial report for the Project, including the report referred to in
Se'tion II.B.4 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in form and
sulbstance satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) 
under Category (3), until the Borrower shall have provided to the Bank:
(i) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the First Plant is fully
commissio ied and operational; and (ii) with respect to each withdrawal
application 
the relevant interim unaudited financial report for the
Project, in, luding the report from the independent verification expert
referred to n Section II.B.5 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(e) 
under Category (4), until the Borrower shall have provided to the Bank:
(i) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Second Plant is fully
commissioi ied and operational; and (ii) with respect to each withdrawal
application the relevant interim unaudited financial report for the
Project, including the report from the independent verification expert
referred to n Section II.B.5 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(f) 
under Cate ;ory (5), until the Borrower shall have provided to the Bank:
(i) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Third Plant is fully
commissio ied and operational; and (ii) with respect to each withdrawal
application the relevant interim unaudited financial report for the
Project, in(luding the report from the independent verification expert
referred to n Section II.B.5 of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date i, June 30, 2020.
Section V. 
Other Undertakin2s
A. 
Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower's Equity shall remain
positive on a yearl, basis commencing with the Borrower's fiscal year 2015, as
evidenced by the Borrower's yearly audited financial statements.
B. 
Not later than the e id of each fiscal year commencing with the Borrower's fiscal
year 2015, the Borr>wer shall furnish to the Bank a copy of the business plan and
financial projectiors (which shall include projected consolidated balance sheet,
income statement aiid cash flow statement), of the Borrower and its subsidiaries
for each upcoming iscal year, as adopted by the Management Board (Directoire)
of the Borrower and prepared in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptab e to the Bank, in a form and substance agreed by the
Borrower and the B ank.
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the prov sions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbun ed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
January I and July 1, the first installment to be payable on the twentieth (20th)
Interest Payment ID ate following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount and the las installment to be payable on the thirty-sixth (36th) Interest
Payment Date follo wing the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
Each installment ex, ept for the last one shall be equal to one-seventeenth (1/17)
of the Disbursed A nount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining
outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the prc visions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after
January 1, 2037, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount
of all such installme its.
3. 
The Bank shall not fy the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount aromptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Curreticy, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on an) Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be de!ermined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomii iation immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that ieflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) i'the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exch inge rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Lc an Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of thi; Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Curren,-y.
-25-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"AFD Co-financier" means Agence Franqaise de Diveloppement, the French
Development Agent y, referred to in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions.
2. 
"AFD Co-financing' means an amount of EUR 50 million to be provided to the
Borrower by the AF) Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.C of the Project.
3. 
"AFD Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and th. AFD Co-financier providing for the AFD Co-financing.
4. 
"AfDB Co-financie " means African Development Bank, referred to in the
Appendix to the Stai idard Conditions.
5. 
"AfDB Second Plan: Co-financing Agreements" means the two agreements to be
entered into betweei ithe Borrower and the AfDB Co-financier providing for the
AfDB Second Plant Co-financing I and the AfDB Second Plant Co-financing II,
respectively.
6. 
"AfDB Second Plan t Co-financing I" means an amount of EUR 72 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the AfDB Co-financier to assist in financing Part
L.A of the Project.
7. 
"AfDB Second Plan: Co-financing II" means an amount of EUR 50 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the AfDB Co-financier acting as an implementing
entity of the Clean I echnology Fund to assist in financing Part L.A of the Project.
8. 
"AfDB Third Plant Co-financing Agreements" means the two agreements to be
entered into betweein the Borrower and the AfDB Co-financier providing for the
AfDB Third Plant .o-financing I and the AfDB Third Plant Co-financing II,
respectively.
9. 
"AfDB Third Plant Co-financing I" means an amount of EUR 28 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the AfDB Co-financier to assist in financing Part
L.C of the Project.
10. 
"AfDB Third Plant Co-financing II" means an amount of EUR 37.5 million to be
provided to the Bor ower by the AfDB Co-financier acting as an implementing
entity of the Clean Technology Fund to assist in financing Part 1.C of the Project.
11. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud ar d Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
- 26 -
12. 
"Associated Facili y Environmental and Social Assessments" or "Associated
Facility ESIAs" 
means collectively: 
(a) the environmental 
and social
management plan dated March 19, 2014, describing all processes, rules,
principles 
includi ig monitoring 
and 
evaluation, 
public 
disclosure and
consultation, 
incl iding 
any 
mitigation 
measures 
and/or 
environmental
management plan! applicable to the Project's water intake facility; and
(b) the Ouarzazatt -Tazzart Transmission Line EIA; such Associated Facility
ESIAs to be fur her disclosed and maintained publicly available on the
Borrower's website through the implementation of the Project, and as the
Associated Facility ESIAs may be amended from time to time after consultation
with, and with the rior approval of the Bank.
13. 
"Associated Facilil y Land Acquisition Plans" or "Associated Facility LAPs"
means collectively (a) the Land Acquisition Plan for the water intake facility
adopted and disclo;ed by the Borrower on March 19, 2014; and (b) any other
LAPs, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared, adopted and disclosed in the
Kingdom of Morocco in accordance with Section I.D.5 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and furl her implemented by the relevant party in order to acquire the
land needed for the purpose of Parts 1.B or 1.D of the Project, that are either:
(i) in the case of im oluntary land acquisition, in compliance with the terms of the
Resettlement Polic) Framework; or (ii) in the case of voluntary land acquisition,
providing evidence of the voluntary nature of the transaction, including, among
other items: (A) the description of the land to be acquired and actually acquired,
including a map; (1) the applicable legal framework for land acquisition for the
purpose of Parts 1.11 or 1.D of the Project; (C) the process followed for the land
acquisition includir g consultation of affected communities, local, provincial and
national authorities, and formal agreement of relevant parties on land acquisition;
(D) payment of c ampensation; (E) the grievance mechanisms available to
affected communiti ts; and (F) the monitoring of mitigation measures, evaluation
and disclosure procsses.
14. 
"Basic Legislation" means the Law No. 57-09 of the Kingdom of Morocco as
promulgated pursuLnt to the Law ("Dahir") No. 1.10-18 of the Kingdom of
Morocco, dated Fe ruary 11, 2010, pursuant to which the Borrower has been
established and is o )erating as a commercial company (socijtd anonyme).
15. 
"Category" means , category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement
16. 
"Co-financiers" mt ans the AFD Co-financier, AfDB Co-financier, EC Co-
financier, EIB Co-fi nancier and KfW Co-financier.
17. 
"Common Infrastruzture ESIAs" means collectively: (i) the environmental and
social assessment for the common infrastructure, including the water storage,
(ICESIA) adopted z nd disclosed by the Borrower on February 11, 2013; and (ii)
- 27 -
any other environnimtal and social assessment to be carried out by the Borrower
for any common in rastructure for Parts 1.A or 1.C of the Project.
18. 
"Conventions" me ns the General Convention, the Second Plant Specific
Convention, the Th rd Plant Specific Convention and the Tripartite Convention.
19. 
"CTF Loan Agreei ment" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
World Bank acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund, for
Part L.A and Part I C of the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such
agreement may be emended from time to time. "CTF Loan Agreement" includes
all appendices, sc iedules and agreements supplemental to the CTF Loan
Agreement.
20. 
"Displaced Person' means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experie iced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the ii voluntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihooc, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involun ary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, rest lting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
21. 
"EC Co-financier" neans the European Commission, referred to in the Appendix
to the Standard Con litions.
22. 
"EC Second Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 40 million to be
provided to the Lorrower as a grant by the EC Co-financier under its
Neighborhood Inve tment Facility to assist in financing Part L.A of the Project,
including through 1 he financing of the Borrower's share of the Second Plant
Project Implementir g Entity' equity interest.
23. 
"EC Second Plant Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Bc rrower and the EC Co-financier providing for the EC Second
Plant Co-financing.
24. 
"EC Third Plant C o-financing" means an amount of EUR 50 million to be
provided to the L orrower as a grant by the EC Co-financier under its
Neighborhood Inve: tment Facility to assist in financing Part 1.C of the Project,
including through he financing of the Borrower's share of the Third Plant
Project Implementir g Entity' equity interest.
25. 
"EC Third Plant C-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the B rrower and the EC Co-financier providing for the EC Third
Plant Co-financing.
- 28 -
26. 
"EIB Co-financier" means European Investment Bank, referred to in the
Appendix to the Sta:idard Conditions.
27. 
"EIB Second Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 254 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the EIB Co-financier to assist in financing Part L.A
of the Project.
28. 
"EIB Second Plant io-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Forrower and the EIB Co-financier providing for the EIB
Second Plant Co-fir ancing.
29. 
"EIB Third Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 96 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the EIB Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.C
of the Project.
30. 
"EIB Third Plant C >financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Bc rrower and the EIB Co-financier providing for the EIB Third
Plant Co-financing.
31. 
"Equity" means the sum of equity contributions (paid-up capital and premium
paid in relation to i;sued shares, share contributions, and mergers), revaluation
adjustments, reserve s, net result carried forward (debtor and creditor), retained
earnings (including the current year net result), investment subsidies and
regulated provisions,
32. 
"First Plant" mean; the concentrated solar parabolic trough facility for the
generation of electi icity of a capacity up to 160 megawatt gross at a 2,500
hectare site located 10 kilometers northeast of the city of Ouarzazate in the
Kingdom of Morocco, to be constructed under Part L.A of the First Plant Project.
33. 
"First Plant Associited Facilities" means those facilities and infrastructures,
including but not lir tited to those to be built and operated for the purposes of: (i)
providing water for he operation of the First Plant; and (ii) transporting power to
and from the First P ant through transmission lines.
34. 
"First Plant CTF L,oan Agreement" means the Clean Technology Fund Loan
Agreement for the )uarzazate I Concentrated Solar Power Plant Project (CTF
Loan Number TFO 0916) dated December 7, 2011, between the World Bank
acting as an impk menting entity of the Clean Technology Fund, and the
Borrower.
35. 
"First Plant Power Purchase Agreement" means the agreement dated November
19, 2012, as amenc ed, entered into between the Borrower and the First Plant
Project Implementir g Entity for the sale by the First Plant Project Implementing
- 29 -
Entity, and the pur.hase by the Borrower, of electricity generated from the First
Plant in accordance with its terms and conditions.
36. 
"First Plant Power Sale Agreement" means the agreement dated November 19,
2012, as amended, entered into between the Borrower and ONEE for the sale by
the Borrower, and the purchase by ONEE, of electricity and energy generated
from the First Plant in accordance with its terms and conditions.
37. 
"First Plant Project' means the project described in Schedule 1 to the First Plant
CTF Loan Agreem(nt.
38. 
"First Plant Project Implementing Entity" means the company established under
the laws of the Ki igdom of Morocco by the Borrower and the competitively
selected partner to levelop the First Plant to be constructed under Part L.A of the
First Plant Project.
39. 
"First Plant Specifii Convention" means the convention dated May 8, 2013, as
amended, entered into between the Kingdom of morocco and the borrower
pursuant to Article 22 of the General Convention, setting forth in particular
undertakings from the Kingdom of Morocco to ensure the economic and
financial equilibriuit of the First Plant Project.
40. 
"Framework Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "FESIA" mean
the environmental :nd social impact assessment framework document prepared
for the purpose of I art 1 of the Project, adopted by MASEN, further disclosed in
the Kingdom of Vorocco on June 25, 2014, and to be maintained publicly
available through the implementation of the Project, such FESIA describing,
among other items: (i) the legal, policy and regulatory framework applicable to
the environmental n nd social management of Part I of the Project, including the
environmental nonns, rules and procedures applicable to the construction,
operation and mairtenance of the Second Plant and the Third Plant; (ii) the
process to be followed by the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and the
Third Plant Project Implementing Entity to develop SESIAs or Associated
Facilities ESIAs, if applicable, before commencing any civil works under Part I
of the Project including the implementation of and compliance with the SESIAs
and the Associated Facilities ESIAs; and (iii) the disclosure and consultation
process to be imp emented during the preparation of the SESIAs, and the
construction and oferation of the Second Plant and the Third Plant, and as the
FESIAs may be am mded from time to time after consultation with, and with the
prior approval of thi Bank.
41. 
"General Conditior s" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development Genet al Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
-30-
42. 
"General Convention" means the convention dated October 26, 2010, entered
into between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Borrower pursuant to Article I of
the Basic Legislation, and approved by the Kingdom of Morocco under Decree
No. 2-11-528 dated September 8, 2011, regarding the conditions and modalities
necessary for the in tplementation of the solar energy program of the Kingdom of
Morocco.
43. 
"KfW Co-financie r" means Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaujbau, the German
Development Agen :y, referred to in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions.
44. 
"KfW Second Plan Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 330 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the KfW Co-financier to assist in financing Part LA
of the Project.
45. 
"KfW Second Plani Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the E orrower and the KfW Co-financier providing for the KfW
Second Plant Co-fii ancing.
46. 
"KfW Third Plant Co-financing" means an amount of EUR 324 million to be
provided to the Bor -ower by the KfW Co-financier to assist in financing Part 1.C
of the Project.
47. 
"KfW Third Plant Co-financing Agreement" means the agreements to be entered
into between the E orrower and the KfW Co-financier providing for the KfW
Third Plant Co-fina icing.
48. 
"Land Acquisition 3lans" or "LAPs" means any Plant-Site LAPs or Associated
Facility LAPs, as he case may be, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared,
adopted and disclo! ed in the Kingdom of Morocco in accordance with Section
I.D.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
49. 
"MASEN Capital" means the subsidiary of the Borrower established under the
laws of the Kingdo n of Morocco by the Borrower, which will hold its share of
the equity interest n the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and in the
Third Plant Project mplementing Entity.
50. 
"MASEN Financial Management and Disbursement Manual" means the manual
describing 
the 
f,nancial 
management, 
co-financing 
and 
disbursement
arrangements for th te Project, adopted by the Borrower on June 7, 2013, and
referred to in Sectio i I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
51. 
"MASEN Govematce Framework" means the set of rules and practices, policies
and procedures de: igned to facilitate accrued efficiency and prevent corrupt
practices, adopted by the Borrower on June 7, 2013.
-31 -
52. 
"Noor-Ouarzazate ;olar Complex" means the First Plant, the Second Plant and
the Third Plant, a, well as the First Plant Associated Facilities, Second Plant
Associated Faciliti( s and Third Plant Associated Facilities.
53. 
"ONEE" means O ice National de l'Electricit et de l'Eau Potable, the National
Electricity and Wat .r Agency of the Kingdom of Morocco.
54. 
"Ouarzazate-Tazza t Transmission Line" means the 225 kilovolt transmission
line extending between the substations at Ouarzazate city and Tazzart to ensure
transmission of the energy output of the Second Plant and the Third Plant to the
wider Moroccan e ctricity grid.
55. 
"Ouarzazate-Tazzai t Transmission Line EIA" means the environmental and
social assessment dated June 26, 2014, describing all processes, rules, principles
including monitor ng and evaluation, public disclosure and consultation,
including any mit gation measures and/or environmental management plans
applicable to the O arzazate-Tazzart Transmission Line.
56. 
"Plant-site Land Acquisition Plans" or "Plant-site LAPs" means collectively:
(a) the Land Acqi isition Plan for the common infrastructure (ICESIA LAP)
adopted and disclcsed by the Borrower on February 11, 2013; (b) the plan
prepared, adopted and disclosed on June 1, 2011, in the Kingdom of Morocco
and further implem.nted by the Borrower in order to acquire the land needed for
the purpose of Part L.A and Part 1.C of the Project; (c) the Land Acquisition Plan
prepared and adopt.-d in May 2013 by the Borrower and further implemented by
the Borrower in orc er to acquire the additional ha of land needed for the purpose
of Part 1.A and Pai t 1.C of the Project; and (d) any other LAP to be carried out
by the Second P1 mt Project Implementing Entity, the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entity, or another party for Part L.A or Part 1.C of the Project; all
such Plant-site LAI s including, among other items: (i) the description of the land
to be acquired and actually acquired by the Borrower, including a map; (ii) the
applicable legal fra nework for land acquisition for the purpose of Part 1.A and
Part 1.C of the PRoject; (iii) the process followed for the land acquisition
including consultat on of affected communities, local, provincial and national
authorities, and foi mal agreement of relevant parties on land acquisition; (iv)
payment of compe isation; (v) the grievance mechanisms available to affected
communities; and vi) the monitoring of mitigation measures, evaluation and
disclosure processe: .
57. 
"Procurement Guid ,lines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrov,ers" dated January 2011.
- 32 -
58. 
"Project Managerent Unit" means the Borrower's unit responsible for the
management of thc Project, referred to in Section I.A.2 in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
59. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy
framework adoptec by ONEE as part of the Ouarzazate-Tazzart Transmission
Line EIA, containiig guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications
for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to
Displaced Persons, as amended from time to time with the prior written consent
of the Bank.
60. 
"Second Plant" m(ans the concentrated solar parabolic trough facility for the
generation of elecl ricity of a capacity up to 200 megawatt gross, at a 2,500
hectare site located 10 kilometers northeast of the city of Ouarzazate in the
Kingdom of Moroc:o.
61. 
"Second Plant Ass:ciated Facilities" means those facilities and infrastructures
referred to in Section 4.3.5 of the FESIA, including those to be built and operated
for the purposes of: (i) providing water for the operation of the Second Plant; and
(ii) transporting po ier to and from the Second Plant through transmission line.
62. 
"Second Plant Engineering, Procurement and Construction Contract" or "Second
Plant EPC Contrac " means the contract to be entered into by the Second Plant
Project Implementing Entity and a third-party contractors for front-end
engineering design, procurement of equipment and services, and construction of
the Second Plant an a lump-sum, turnkey basis or such other basis as may be
suitable for comple ion of the facility within the timeframe, technical parameters
and other terms al reed between the Borrower and the Second Plant Project
Implementing Entit, in the Second Plant Power Purchase Agreement.
63. 
"Second Plant Fin incial Management and Disbursement Manual" means the
manual describing the financial management, co-financing and disbursement
arrangements for I art 1.A of the Project, and referred to in Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this / greement.
64. 
"Second Plant Go) ernance Framework" means the set of rules and practices,
policies and proce lures designed to facilitate accrued efficiency and prevent
corrupt practices, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared and adopted by the
Second Plant Proje t Implementing Entity.
65. 
"Second Plant Ope ation and Maintenance Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity and a third
party operator allo ating to the operator the obligation to operate and maintain
the Second Plant in accordance with its terms and conditions.
-33-
66. 
"Second Plant Pow,!r Purchase Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Bo rower and the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity for
the sale by the Second Plant Project Implementing Entity, and the purchase by
the Borrower, of el ctricity generated from the Second Plant in accordance with
its terms and conditi )ns.
67. 
"Second Plant Powi r Sale Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrow -r and ONEE for the sale by the Borrower, and the purchase
by ONEE, of electr c capacity and energy generated from the Second Plant in
accordance with its i erms and conditions.
68. 
"Second Plant Projet Implementing Entity" means the company to be held under
the laws of the Kngdom of Morocco by the Borrower and one or more
competitively select.-d partners to develop the Second Plant to be constructed
under Part L.A of th< Project.
69. 
"Second Plant Shar.-holders' Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into by MASEN C&pital with all the other holders of all of the Second Plant
Project Implementin Entity's voting and nonvoting equity interest that governs
their relationship ar d collective approach to management of the Second Plant
Project Implementing Entity's affairs.
70. 
"Second Plant Spec ific Convention" means the convention to be entered into
between the Kingdoi n of Morocco and the Borrower pursuant to Article 22 of the
General Convention setting forth in particular undertakings from the Kingdom
of Morocco to ensu -e the economic and financial equilibrium of Part L.A and
Part 1.B of the Proje:t
71. 
"Second Plant Su )sidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreement or
agreements, as the c; se may be, referred to in Section I.B. I of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan and tht proceeds of the AfDB Second Plant Co-financing I, the
AfDB Second Plant 2o-financing II, the EIB Second Plant Co-financing, and the
KfW Second Plant ( o-financing available as a loan or loans, as the case may be,
to the Second Plant Froject Implementing Entity.
72. 
"Social Developmeit Plan" or "SDP" means the social development plan
describing: (i) the be iefits that will accrue to local communities in the area of the
Project through the i se of the proceeds of the compensation paid pursuant to the
provisions of the P ant-site LAPs for the land acquisition necessary for the
Project; and (ii) other voluntary actions planned to be implemented by the
Borrower and/or any other stakeholder.
- 34 -
73. 
"Specific Environ nental and Social Assessments" or "SESIAs" means, the
assessment or asse ;sments, as the case may be, to be carried out by the Second
Plant Project Imp]-menting Entity and the Third Plant Project Implementing
Entity for Part 1.A and Part 1.C of the Project, in accordance with the provisions
of the FESIA, inch ding all processes, rules, principles including monitoring and
evaluation, public ,isclosure and consultation, and SESMPs, as described in the
FESIA, and to be ,ubmitted to the Bank for its review and approval before the
commencement of the construction of the Second Plant or the Third Plant, as
applicable, such 
;ESIAs to be further disclosed and maintained publicly
available on the Borrower's website through the implementation of the Project,
and as the SESIAs may be amended from time to time after consultation with,
and with the prior approval of the Bank.
74. 
"Specific Environr lental and Social Management Plans" or "SESMPs" means
the plan or the pla is, as the case may be, to be developed and adopted by the
Second Plant Pr ject Implementing Entity and the Third Plant Project
Implementing Enti y, as part of the SESIAs, for Part L.A and Part 1.C of the
Project, and contai iing, inter alia, the mitigation measures to monitor, reduce,
offset or compensE te any environmental and/or negative impact that may arise
from the activities under Part L.A and Part 1.C of the Project, such plans to
include institutional arrangements for their implementation, budget and
monitoring and ev aluation systems to implement, monitor and evaluate said
mitigation measures, and as the SESMPs may be amended from time to time
after consultation m ith, and with the prior approval of the Bank.
75. 
"Third Plant" meai s the concentrated solar tower facility for the generation of
electricity of a capE city up to 150 megawatt gross, at a 2,500 hectare site located
10 kilometers north east of the city of Ouarzazate in the Kingdom of Morocco.
76. 
"Third Plant Asso iated Facilities" means those facilities and infrastructures
referred to in Sectic n 4.3.5 of the FESIA, including those to be built and operated
for the purposes of (i) providing water for the operation of the Third Plant; and
(ii) transporting pow ier to and from the Third Plant through transmission line.
77. 
"Third Plant Engit eering, Procurement and Construction Contract" or "Third
Plant EPC Contrac.:" means the contract to be entered into by the Third Plant
Project Implement ing Entity and a 
third-party contractor for front-end
engineering design, procurement of equipment and services, and construction of
the Third Plant on a lump-sum, turnkey basis or such other basis as may be
suitable for comple ion of the facility within the timeframe, technical parameters
and other terms a greed between the Borrower and the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entit / in the Second Plant Power Purchase Agreement.
- 35 -
78. 
"Third Plant Fina icial Management and Disbursement Manual" means the
manual describing the financial management, co-financing and disbursement
arrangements for I art 1.C of the Project, and referred to in Section I.A. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this A greement.
79. 
"Third Plant Gove mance Framework" means the set of rules and practices,
policies and proce, lures designed to facilitate accrued efficiency and prevent
corrupt practices, s itisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared and adopted by the
Third Plant Project 'mplementing Entity.
80. 
"Third Plant Operai ion and Maintenance Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into betwern the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity and a third
party operator allo ating to the operator the obligation to operate and maintain
the Third Plant in ai cordance with its terms and conditions.
81. 
"Third Plant Power Purchase Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity for the
sale by the Third Plant Project Implementing Entity, and the purchase by the
Borrower, of electr city generated from the Third Plant in accordance with its
terms and condition;.
82. 
"Third Plant Powei Sale Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrov er and ONEE for the sale by the Borrower, and the purchase
by ONEE, of elect!-ic capacity and energy generated from the Third Plant in
accordance with its erms and conditions.
83. 
"Third Plant Projec Implementing Entity" means the company to be held under
the laws of the Kingdom of Morocco by the Borrower and one or more
competitively selec ed partners to develop the Third Plant to be constructed
under Part 1.C of th, Project.
84. 
"Third Plant Sharef olders' Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
by MASEN Capital with all the other holders of all of the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entit /'s voting and nonvoting equity interest that governs their
relationship and collective approach to management of the Third Plant Project
Implementing Entito 's affairs.
85. 
"Third Plant Speci ic Convention" means the convention to be entered into
between the Kingdo n of Morocco and the Borrower pursuant to Article 22 of the
General Conventior, setting forth in particular undertakings from the Kingdom
of Morocco to ensure the economic and financial equilibrium of Part 1.C and Part
1.D of the Project.
-36-
86. 
"Third Plant Subsii liary Loan Agreements" means the agreement or agreements,
as the case may be referred to in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
pursuant to which t ie Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
and the proceeds ol the AFD Co-financing, the AfDB Third Plant Co-financing I,
the AfDB Third Ph nt Co-financing II, the EIB Third Plant Co-financing, and the
KfW Third Plant C )-financing available as a loan or loans, as the case may be, to
the Third Plant Pro ect Implementing Entity.
87. 
"Tripartite Conven ion" means the Convention dated October 26, 2010, entered
into among the K ngdom of Morocco, the Borrower and ONEE pursuant to
Article 3 of the Basic Legislation, regarding the obligations of each of such
parties regarding t ie supply, transport, commercialization and exportation of
electricity.
