OFFICIAL
00CUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8314-MX
Loan Agreement
(Third Upper Secondary Education
Development Policy Loan)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated Feb,c 
tA ,20 1
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMEENT
Agreement dated 
li 
cr 
I 
D 
, 204, entered into between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES ("Borrower"), represented by its Ministry of Finance and
Public 
Credit 
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Pziblico -
SHCP) 
and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b)
the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as
set forth in the table in Section II.B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for purposes of
supporting the Program), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the
Borrower's income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million seven hundred
fifty one thousand eight hundred seventy nine Dollars with seventy cents
($300,751,879.70), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
As a consequence of the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework and its satisfactory implementation of the Program, the
Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement. Unless the
Borrower's representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement
otherwise informs the Bank, the Borrower's Representative for purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the
Director/a de Organismos Financieros Internacionales of NAFIN, or any person
or persons whom such representative shall jointly or severally designate in
writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May I and November 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to : (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
-2-
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its results. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in the implementation of the
Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall cause NAFIN
to furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in the implementation of the Program, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall, or shall cause NAFIN to, promptly inform
the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
3.02. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de
Mandato) among SHCP, SEP and NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank,
whereby:
-3-
(i) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with
regard to the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to
represent the Borrower vis-a-vis the Bank for purposes of
submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to
the Borrower of Loan proceeds in compliance with the terms of
this Agreement; and
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and SEP, shall cooperate fully with
NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of
NAFIN's obligations referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this
Section.
(b) 
The Borrower, through SHCP and SEP, shall exercise its rights and carry
out its obligations under the Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not terminate, amend, waive or fail to enforce any
provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict between
the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
that the Contrato de Mandato has been executed by the parties thereto;
and
(b) 
that the Bank is satisfied with the implementation of the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Borrower
(in its legal opinion) and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the
Bank, issued by NAFIN's counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the
Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and NAFIN in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato's terms.
-4-
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on June 16, 2015.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Ptiblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an EBRD
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be:
(a) the Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Pzblico of SHCP or any person or
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or
(b) NAFIN's Director/a de Organismos Financieros Internacionales.
6.02. 
Unless the Borrower's representative designated in Section 6.01 above otherwise
informs the Bank, the Borrower's Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of
the General Conditions is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Piiblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre III, tercer piso
Colonia Guadalupe Inn
01020 Mdxico, D.F.
Facsimile: 011-52-55-3688-1216
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
CXIA 
C00 
Ct fU 
MCXICO 
,as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
uhorized Representative
Name: AINOdO 
10,7 
C 
}COY0
Title:T lU& Ic 
Vilod do
CrdMdi fD PJbiIco
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVE OPMENT
By
uthorized 
esentative
Name: 
10 
t 
arndohII
Title: 
) 
if 1
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions already taken by the Borrower, through SEP, under the Program, include the
following:
A. 
Improving Flexibility of Upper Secondary Education
1. 
The Borrower has recognized equivalences of subjects across schools to
facilitate the transfer of students between systems, as evidenced by: (i)
the Borrower's Decree (which modified the General Education Law)
duly published in the Official Gazette on June 10, 2013; (ii) the
Borrower's education reform which is set forth in the Borrower's Decree
(which modified the General Education Law) duly published in the
Official Gazette on September 11, 2013; and (iii) Resolution No.
XVIII, dated June 14, 2013 issued by CONAEDU.
B. 
Enhancing Quality of Upper Secondary Education
2. 
The Borrower has: (i) established INEE's mandate, functions and
responsibilities and internal organization; and (ii) granted INEE full
legal, technical and financial autonomy and new responsibilities,
including those related to the evaluation of Upper Secondary Education,
as evidenced by the Borrower's law (Ley del Instituto Nacional para la
Evaluaci6n de la Educacidn) duly published in the Official Gazette on
September 11, 2013.
3. 
The Borrower has issued regulations to officially recognize alternative
teacher training programs under the National Upper Secondary
Education System as evidenced by Acuerdo No. 15 issued by the Comitj
Directivo del Sistema Nacional del Bachillerato Sectorial, published in
COPEEMS' website and dated June 13, 2013.
C. 
Reducing Opportunity Cost of Upper Secondary Education
4. 
The Borrower, through SEP, has introduced a new modality to award
scholarships under SEP scholarship program in order to improve the
targeting of students at risk of dropping out, as evidenced by SEP's
Acuerdo No. 690, published in the Official Gazette on August 19, 2013.
-7-
5. 
The Borrower has made Upper Secondary Education compulsory, as
evidenced by the Borrower's Decree (which modified the General
Education Law) published in the Official Gazette on June 10, 2013.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, withdraw the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a Single Withdrawal Tranche, from which the
Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan Tranche
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal 
300,000,000.00
Tranche
(2) Front-end Fee 
751,879.70
(3) Amount due pursuant to 
0
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,751,879.70
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being implemented by the Borrower; and (b)
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and
-8-
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with its laws and shall not use them to finance Excluded
Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was
used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of
such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is September 30, 2015.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on November
1,2021.
- 10 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1 
"CONAEDU" means Consejo Nacional de Autoridades Educativas, the
Borrower's Council of Education Authorities, established to comply with the
provisions of article 17 of the General Education Law.
2. 
"Contrato de Mandato" means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement.
3. 
"COPEEMS" means Consejo para la Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n Media
Superior, A.C. the Borrower's National Council for the Evaluation of Upper
Secondary Education, an entity established as a civil association pursuant to its
Articles of Agreement, dated May 4, 2010 and registered in the Borrower's
Notary No. 171.
4. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear
reactors
- 11 -
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares (including
set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or intemational
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"General Education Law" means Ley General de Educaci6n, the Borrower's law
duly published in the Official Gazette on July 13, 1993.
7. 
"INEE" means Instituto Nacional para la Evaluacidn de la Educaci6n, the
Borrower's National Institute for the Evaluation of Education, a decentralized
public entity of the Borrower, created through the Borrower's Decree No. 6-68,
duly published in the Official Gazette on March 3, 2003.
8. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Mexican development bank
serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
9. 
"National Upper Secondary Education System" means Sistema Nacional de
Bachillerato, the Borrower's reformed upper secondary education system,
- 12 -
created by SEP Agreement 442, duly published in the Official Gazette on
September 26, 2008.
10. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated October 21, 2013 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the Program.
11. 
"PROFORDEMS" means Programa de Formacidn Docente de Educaci6n Media
Superior, the Borrower's In-Service Teacher Capacity Program for Upper
Secondary Education, established pursuant to Acuerdo No. 447, issued by SEP
and duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October 29, 2008.
12. 
"SEP" means Secretaria de Educacidn Pziblica, the Borrower's Ministry of
Public Education.
13. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Ptblico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
14. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Upper Secondary Education" means Educacidn Media Superior, the level of
education provided in the Borrower's territory after the completion of basic
education (comprising of preschool and first to ninth grades) and required for
entry into higher education (university or equivalent).
Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
- 13 -
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
- 14 -
'Program' 
means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
-15-
