OFFICIA
I DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8417-VN
Loan Agreement
(Transmission Efficiency Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
2 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
k<l 
2 
, 2014, between SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million Dollars
($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan,.the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the National Power
Transmission Corporation in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that NPT's
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the NPT to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely the
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and NPT.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely: (a) the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NPT and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and NPT in accordance with its terms; and (b)
the Resettlement Policy Framework has been duly approved by the Prime
Minister and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its
respective terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State
Bank of Vietnam.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi, Vietnam
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
VIETBANK 
412248 
(84-4) 3825 0612
Hanoi 
NHTWVT
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and
year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By
Authorized Representative
Name: NJAA4 
VOUI, 
SjoLL
Title:__ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Aut)6i: 
pe
Name: 
Md vaw
Title: 
yc 
u,
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity, efficiency and reliability
of electricity transmission services in selected parts of the electricity transmission
network in the territory of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following:
Part 1: Enhancing Transmission Infrastructure
Carrying out of an investment infrastructure program to increase the capacity and
reliability of the electricity transmission network, including the construction of
transmission lines and substations at the 220kV and 500kV levels.
Part 2: Developing Smart Grid Network
Carrying out of: (i) a substation modernization strategy in targeted areas, including the
replacement or upgrading of monitoring, control, protection, and other ancillary
equipment in transmission substations at voltage levels of 220 kV and 500 kV; (ii)
upgrading an information system for operation and equipment management; and (iii)
establishment of a data and metering system for NPT.
Part 3: Capacity Buildin2
Provision of support for capacity building of NPT, including: (a) improvement of the
asset management system; (b) assistance in cost-reflective transmission tariff application;
(c) building financial reporting capacity on the basis of international financial reporting
standards; and (d) upgrading of the electrical testing laboratory center.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
Ministry of Industry and Trade
1. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for the provision of policy and strategic
orientation to the Project through its Ministry of Industry and Trade.
Vietnam Electricity
2. 
EVN shall be responsible for overall Project coordination, and monitoring and
evaluation.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate NPT's implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to NPT under a Subsidiary Agreement between
the Borrower, represented by its Ministry of Finance, and NPT, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the obligations of NPT
to:
(a) 
(i) pay the Borrower a front-end-fee in an amount equal to the Front-end
Fee specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement; (ii) repay the proceeds
of the Loan over a period of twenty six (26) years, inclusive of a grace
period of ten (10) years; and (iii) pay interest on the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate
payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
subject to any request that the Borrower may make pursuant to Section
2.07 of this Agreement, plus an on-lending fee of a quarter of one
percent (0.25%);
(b) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds
other than the Borrower;
(c) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Operations Manual, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any
provision thereof;
-7-
(d) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Safeguard Instruments, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any
provision thereof;
(e) 
ensure that: (i) an acceptable financial management system is maintained
and financial statements are prepared in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of NPT,
including the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the
Project; and (ii) such statements are audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and such audited financial statements
are furnished to the Borrower and the Bank in accordance with the
provisions of Section II.D.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement
and made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank; and
(f) 
ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and services required for
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section III
of this Schedule 2, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the
Procurement Plan.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the POM; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such POM and those of this
Agreement, the latter shall govern.
-8-
E. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the
Environment Management Plans, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the
Resettlement Plans, the Ethnic Minority Planning Framework, and the Ethnic
Minority Development Plans, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in
writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived the aforementioned, or any provision
thereof.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Semi-Annual Reviews
The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank and NPT, no later than one (1)
month after the transmittal by NPT of each Project Report to the Bank, such
Report, and thereafter cause NPT to take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of NPT's implementation of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives of the Project, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of such Report and the Borrower and the Bank's views on the matter.
B. 
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank and NPT, no later than twenty-four
(24) months after the Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the
status of NPT's implementation of the Project, as measured against the
performance indicators set forth in the POM. Such review shall include
an assessment of the following: (i) overall progress in implementation of
the Project; (ii) 
results of monitoring and evaluation 
activities;
(iii) progress on the implementation of annual work plans and budgets;
(iv) progress on procurement and disbursement; (v) progress on the
implementation 
of 
safeguards 
measures; 
(vi) implementation
arrangements; and (vii) the need to make any adjustments to the Project
and reallocate funds to improve performance;
(b) 
cause NPT to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, at least
three (3) months before such review, a report, in scope and detail
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, needed to undertake the
review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
-9-
the date of the said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives of the Project during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review, jointly with the Bank and NPT, the report referred to in
subparagraph (b) of this Part B and thereafter cause NPT to take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of NPT's
implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of
the Project, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report
and the Borrower and the Bank's views on the matter.
C. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports, and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained an acceptable financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of NPT. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
- 10-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consulting
services, and works. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set out in
the Annex to this Schedule
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Single-Source Selection
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Least-Cost Selection
- 11 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 12 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the General Conditions; and (b) Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
498,750,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and Workshops,
and Incremental Operating
Costs for the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 
2.03 
of this
Agreement 
in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
- 13 -
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Procedures
The procedures to be followed for the procurement of goods, non-consulting services,
and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be
those set forth in: (a) Article 20 on Open Bidding of the Borrower's Law on Procurement
No. 43/2013/QH13 
dated 
November 
26 
2013; 
(b) 
the 
Borrower's 
Law
No. 38/2009/QH12 Amending and Supplementing a Number of Articles of Laws
Concerning Capital Construction Investment dated June 19, 2009; and (c) the Borrower's
Decree No. 63/2014/ND-CP Guiding Implementation of the Law on the Procurement and
Selection of Construction Contractors under the Construction Law dated June 26, 2014
October 15, 2009 (collectively, "National Procurement Laws"), subject to the provisions
of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines and the following
provisions:
Conflict of Interest
1. 
A bidder shall not have a conflict of interest. Any bidder found to have a conflict
of interest shall be ineligible for award of a contract. The provisions on conflict of
interest as stated under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply.
Eligibility
2. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same
conditions as national bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders
shall be granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked
or required to form joint ventures with or be subcontractors to national bidders in order to
submit a bid.
3. 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions of the Borrower's country are
eligible to bid in the Borrower's country only if they can establish that they: (i) are
legally and financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are not
dependent agencies of the Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
Registration
4. 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A foreign bidder
shall not be required to register as a condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to
be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of
registering, without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
- 14 -
Advertising; Time for Bid Preparation
5. 
The complete text of advertisement shall be published in a national newspaper of
wide circulation or in the official gazette provided that it is of wide circulation, or on a
widely used website or electronic portal with free national and international access. The
Borrower may publish a shorter version of the advertisement text, including the minimum
relevant information, in the national press provided that the full text is simultaneously
published in the official gazette or on a widely used website or electronic portal with free
national and international access. Notification shall be given to prospective bidders in
sufficient time to enable them to obtain relevant documents.
6. 
The time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less than
thirty (30) days from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of the
bidding documents, whichever is later.
Standard Bidding Documents
7. 
Standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Qualification Criteria
8. 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and all
criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used to determine whether a
bidder is qualified. Qualification shall be assessed on a pass or fail basis and merit points
shall not be used. Such assessment shall only take into account the bidder's capacity and
resources to perform the contract, specifically its experience and past performance on
similar contracts, capabilities with respect to personnel, equipment, and construction and
manufacturing facilities, and financial capacity. The evaluation of the bidder's
qualifications shall be conducted separately subsequent to the technical and commercial
evaluation of the bid.
Bid Submission, Bid Opening, and Bid Evaluation
9. 
Bidders may submit bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or
by mail, as required in the bidding documents. 
Bids shall be opened in public,
immediately after the deadline for submission of bids, regardless of the number of bids
received. 
Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and
returned to the bidders unopened. A copy of the bid opening minutes shall be promptly
provided to all bidders who submitted bids, and to the Bank with respect to contracts
subject to the Bank's prior review.
(a) 
Bidding documents shall be sold to anyone who is willing to pay the
required fee of the bidding documents which shall not exceed the costs of
printing, reproduction, and delivery at any time prior to the deadline for
- 15 -
bid submission, and no other conditions shall be imposed on the sale of
the bidding documents.
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that
shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in
monetary terms for evaluation criteria other than price; merit points shall
not be used in bid evaluation.
(c) 
A contract shall be awarded, within the period of the validity of bids, to
the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and
resources and whose bid has been determined (i) to be substantially
responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the lowest
evaluated cost. No negotiations shall be permitted. A bidder shall neither
be required nor permitted, as a condition for award, to undertake
obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to
modify the bid as originally submitted.
(d) 
No bid shall be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of
minor, non-substantive deviations.
(e) 
The comparison of all bids and the award of contract may be based on
the total cost at destination including all taxes and duties.
(f) 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's
estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written agreement.
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
10. 
Rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective competition, or all
bids are not substantially responsive, or no bidder meets the specified qualification
criteria, or the bid price of the lowest evaluated winning bid is substantially higher than
the Borrower's updated estimated cost or available budget. Lack of competition shall not
be determined solely on the basis of the number of bidders. Even when only one bid is
submitted, the bidding process may be considered valid, if the bid was satisfactorily
advertised, the qualification criteria were not unduly restrictive, and prices are reasonable
in comparison to market values. All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited
without the Bank's prior written agreement.
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
11. 
The Borrower shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism
allowing bidders to protest and have their protests handled in a timely manner. An
independent protest mechanism shall provide for the review of complaints by an
independent entity that is not involved in any aspect of the underlying procurement
process (e.g., bid evaluation, contract approval, etc.).
- 16 -
Fraud and Corruption
12. 
The provisions on fraud and corruption as stated under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply. Each bidding document and contract financed out
of the proceeds of the Financing shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud
and corruption as defined in the Guidelines. The Bank will sanction a firm or individual,
at any time, in accordance with prevailing Bank sanctions procedures, including by
publicly declaring such firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated
period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; and (ii) to be a nominated
sub-contractor, consultant, supplier, or service provider of an otherwise eligible firm
being awarded an Bank-financed contract.
Right to Inspect / Audit
13. 
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the Financing
shall include a provision requiring bidders, suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors to
permit the Bank, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank. 
Acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's
inspection and audit rights provided for in the Guidelines constitute an obstructive
practice as defined in the Guidelines.
License
14. 
Foreign contractors shall be given a reasonable opportunity to apply for and
obtain a work license, which shall not be arbitrarily withheld.
Publication of the Award of Contract
15. 
Within two weeks of receiving the Bank's no objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within two weeks
of the Borrower's award decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review, the
Borrower shall publish the following information on contract award in a national
newspaper of wide circulation and/or in the official gazette provided that it is of wide
circulation, or on a widely used website or electronic portal with free national and
international access: (a) the name of each bidder which submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as
read out at bid opening; (c) evaluated prices of each bid that was evaluated; (d) the names
of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or not meeting qualification
criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons thereof; and (e) the name of the winning
bidder, the final total contract price, as well as the duration and summary scope of the
contract.
Contract Modifications
- 17 -
16. 
With respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, the Borrower shall
obtain the Bank's no objection before agreeing to: 
(a) a material extension of the
stipulated time for performance of a contract; (b) any substantial modification of the
scope of services or other significant changes to the terms and conditions of the contract;
(c) any variation order or amendment (except in cases of extreme urgency) which, singly
or combined with all variation orders or amendments previously issued, increases the
original contract amount by more than 15 percent; or (d) the proposed termination of the
contract. A copy of all contract amendments shall be provided to the Bank.
- 18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2024 
3.13%
through October 15, 2039
On April 15, 2040 
2.97%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 19 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Central 
Project Management Board" 
or "CPMB" 
means NPT's entity
responsible for the management of power transmission project activities, mainly
in the central part of the Borrower's territory, or any successor thereto.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
5. 
"Department of Compensation" means the department of each of the Project
Management Boards responsible for the management of environmental and
social safeguards in relation to the respective Board's activities, or any successor
thereto.
6. 
"Department of Natural Resources and Environment" or "DONRE" means the
Borrower's provincial-level entity, responsible for the management of natural
resources and the environment within the respective Provincial People's
Committee, or any successor thereto.
7. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of implementation of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person;
and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such persons.
8. 
"Environment Management Plans" or "EMPs" means NPT's plans, to be agreed
with the Bank and setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to eliminate
any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under a
Subproject, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive
impacts, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social
- 21 -
Management Framework, as the same may be modified from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such plans.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
framework acceptable to the Bank, adopted by MOIT pursuant to its Decision
Number 5838/QD-BCT dated June 27, 2014, which sets forth the environmental
protection measures in respect of the Project, including the preparation of EMPs
during the implementation of the Project, and administrative and monitoring
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said framework, as said ESMF
may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework.
10. 
"Ethnic Minority Development Plans" or "EMDPs" means NPT's plans, to be
agreed with the Bank and setting out the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring,
and institutional measures, including capacity building through training, that
have been identified by NPT to address any adverse effects on ethnic minorities
associated with, and ensure culturally appropriate social and economic benefits
for Ethnic Minorities under, a Subproject, in accordance with the provisions of
the Ethnic Minority Planning Framework, as the same may be modified from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes
any annexes or schedules to such plans.
11. 
"Ethnic Minority Planning Framework" or "EMPF" means the framework
adopted by MOIT pursuant to Decision Number 5838/QD-BCT dated June 27,
2014, agreed with the Bank and setting out the mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, that have been identified by NPT to ensure meaningful consultation
with, and the informed participation of, ethnic minorities within the Project area
who are affected by the Project, and guidelines and procedures for the
preparation of Ethnic Minority Development Plans, as the same may be modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes any annexes or schedules to such framework.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs under the
Project incurred by the Borrower for purposes of Project management,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation, including office supplies and
consumables, 
utilities, bank 
charges, 
communications, 
information 
and
communication campaigns, mass media and printing services, vehicle rental,
operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and
equipment maintenance, travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries
- 22 -
of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salary and salary supplements
of staff of the Borrower's civil service ("c6ng chftrc" and "vien chirc").
14. 
"kV" means kilovolt, or one thousand (1,000) volts, a standard unit of measure of
electric voltage.
15. 
"Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment" or "MONRE" means the
Borrower's ministry responsible for the management of natural resources and
environment, or any successor thereto.
16. 
"Ministry of Finance" or "MOF" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
the management of finance, or any successor thereto.
17. 
"Ministry of Industry and Trade" or "MOIT" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for the management of industry and trade, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"National Power Transmission Corporation" or "NPT" means EVN's wholly-
owned subsidiary, established and operating pursuant to EVN's Decision
Numbers 223/QD-EVN dated April 11, 2008 and 324/QD-EVN dated May 14,
2012, and NPT's charter, as adopted pursuant to the latter Decision, responsible
for power transmission activities, or any successor thereto.
19. 
"Northern Project Management Board" or "NPBM" means NPT's entity
responsible for the management of power transmission project activities, mainly
in the northern part of the Borrower's territory, or any successor thereto.
20. 
"NPT's Legislation" means EVN's Decision Numbers 223/QD-EVN dated April
11, 2008 and 324/QD-EVN dated May 14, 2012, and NPT's charter, as adopted
pursuant to the latter Decision; and such term includes any other decisions, or
any 
laws 
and 
regulations 
governing 
the 
organization, 
reorganization,
restructuring, and operations of NPT as of the date of this Agreement.
21. 
"Prime Minister" means the Prime Minister of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam,
the highest ranking official in the executive branch of the Borrower's
government.
22. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the document adopted by MOIT pursuant to
Decision Number 5439/QD-BCT dated June 17, 2014, and referred to in
paragraph 1(c) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, agreed with the
Bank and setting out implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring
and evaluation, environmental and social monitoring and mitigation, financial
management, disbursement, and procurement arrangements for purposes of
Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such manual.
- 23 -
23. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
24. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated March 12, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
25. 
"Project Management Boards" or "PMBs" means, collectively, the NPMB,
CPMB, and SPMB, responsible for the management of projects in the respective
parts of the Borrower's territory, or any successors thereto.
26. 
"Resettlement Plans" or "RPs" means NPT's plans, to be agreed with the Bank
and setting out the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional
measures, including capacity building through training, to carry out acquisition of
land and other assets, compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Displaced
Persons under a Subproject, in accordance with the provisions of the
Resettlement Policy Framework, as the same may be modified from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes
or schedules to such plans.
27. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework, approved by
the Prime Minister pursuant to Decision Number 1081/QD-TTg dated July 7,
2014, agreed with the Bank and setting out the mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, to carry out acquisition of land and other assets, compensation,
resettlement, and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and guidelines and
procedures for the preparation of Resettlement Plans, under the Project, as the
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework.
28. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, the Environment Management Plans, the Resettlement
Policy Framework, the Resettlement Plans, the Ethnic Minority Planning
Framework, and the Ethnic Minority Development Plans
29. 
"Southern Project Management Board" or "SPMB" means NPT's entity
responsible for the management of power transmission project activities, mainly
in the southern part of the Borrower's territory, or any successor thereto.
30. 
"Subproject" means one (1) or more contract packages under Parts 1 and 2 of the
Project, grouped together for procurement purposes.
- 24 -
31. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the NPT.
32. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of expenditure incurred
by the Borrower, based on annual work plans and terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, in facilitating and conducting domestic and overseas training and
workshop activities of the Project, including costs of training or workshop
materials; honoraria; interpretation and translation; equipment and venue rental;
lunches; and per diem, accommodation, and transportation for those attending the
training or workshop; but excluding salary and salary supplements of Borrower's
civil servants ("c6ng chrc" and "vi6n chrc").
33. 
"Vietnam Electricity" or "EVN" means the Borrower's wholly-owned enterprise,
established and operating pursuant to the Prime Minister's Decision No.
975/2010/QD-TTg dated June 25, 2010, and EVN's charter, as adopted under
said Decision, responsible for the development, operation, and maintenance,
direct or indirect, of facilities for the generation, transmission, and distribution of
electricity throughout the Borrower's territory, or any successor thereto.
