OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8387-UA
Loan Agreement
(Ukraine District Heating Energy Efficiency Project)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 
, ,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8387-UA
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
1 Y 
/-6 
, 2014, between UKRAINE ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule I to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of Part 1(a) and Part 2 of the Project;
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith (the CTF Loan Agreement), the Bank,
acting as the implementing agency of the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) has agreed to make a
loan (the CTF Loan) to the Borrower in the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000) to
assist in financing Part 1(b) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the CTF Loan
Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred and thirty two million Dollars
(USD 332,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing Parts 1(a) and 2 of the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through Minregion, shall (a) cause Part 1(a) of the Project to be carried out by
the respective Participating DH Companies (Project Implementing Entities); and (b) carry
-- 2--
out Part 2 of the Project through its Minregion in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and each Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through Minregion, shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a Project
Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of such Project Implementing Entity to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
At least five Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower, through MOF and Minregion, and five Participating DH Companies.
(b) 
The Project Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has
been finalized and adopted by Minregion and each Participating DH Company.
(c) 
The CTF Loan Agreement has been executed and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness and to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under it
(other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been satisfied or waived.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the five Subsidiary
Agreements referred to in Section 5.01(a) above have been duly authorized or approved by the
Borrower and the respective Project Implementing Entities and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and such Project Implementing Entities in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
5.04. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties hereto
in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions. Such
amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-- 3--
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
Facsimile:
(380-44) 425-90-26
(380-44) 277-54-82
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-- 4--
AGREED at Kiev, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written.
UKRAINE
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
lld( S/rff 
I ~~
Title: / 2 IL/ ', 
le 2 
~ ~ 
c
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
-:
Authonzed Representative
Name: 
5,(--
Title: C( 
CY e )ICA
t bJ 
L 
C 
l)/ 
UtLLLCt 
L 
I
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the energy efficiency and quality of service of
selected Ukrainian district heating companies, improve their financial viability and decrease their
C02 emissions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Energy Efficiency Investments
Implementation of Energy Efficiency Investments specified in a Participating DH Company's
Investment Program, through the following interventions:
(a) Rehabilitation of boiler houses, closing of redundant boiler houses, installation of
small CHPs, replacement of network pipes with pre-insulated pipes and installation
of SCADA management systems, and related EEI Implementation Costs.
(b) Installation of IHSs in residential buildings and installation of building-level heat
meters.
Part 2: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
Support to Minregion for Project management including for establishment of, and training and
technical assistance to the CPMU, supervision of Project implementation, guidance and training
in project implementation, monitoring and evaluation to the Participating DH Companies;
carrying out of capacity building workshops to the Participating DH Companies, carrying out
sector-wide knowledge sharing and project results dissemination workshops, carrying out of
surveys among the Participating DH Companies' customers; preparation of consolidated annual
Project audits; preparation of required studies related to the Project and financing of Incremental
Operating Costs.
-- 6--
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out Part 2 of the Project through its Minregion in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the POM and shall ensure that the POM is not amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed and that no provision of the POM is waived, without prior
approval of the Bank.
(b) 
through Minregion, maintain the CPMU within Minregion, throughout the
duration of the Project, in a form and with functions, staffing, (under terms of reference,
qualifications and scope of responsibilities) and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the
Bank and as further set forth in the POM; the CPMU shall be responsible for supervision
of Project implementation, including the overall supervision of implementation of Energy
Efficiency Investments of a Participating DH Company under Part 1 of the Project, for
data collection, preparation of consolidated Project reports and financial reports,
providing support to PIUs on all financial management, procurement and environmental
and social compliance matters, monitoring environmental and social aspects of Project
implementation, and general oversight of and coordination between the Participating DH
Companies.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of each Participating DH Company's Respective Part of the
Project under Part 1 (a) of the Project, namely in each Participating DH Company's case
the Participating DH Company's Investment Program's Energy Efficiency Investments
falling within Part 1(a) of the Project, the Borrower, through MOF, shall make the
respective part of the proceeds of the Loan available to each Participating DH Company
under a Subsidiary Agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which
shall include the following:
(a) 
The principal amount of the Loan made available under the Subsidiary
Agreement ("Subsidiary Loan") shall be: (i) in an amount equivalent to the
Energy Efficiency Investments 
under the Participating 
DH Company's
Investment Program to be supported by Part 1(a) of the Project, as reflected for
the relevant Participating DH Company in Category 1 of the table set forth in
Section IV. A. 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such amounts may be
adjusted from time to time with the prior consent of the Bank upon the request of
the Borrower; (ii) denominated and repayable in Dollars; (iii) charged interest on
the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate
applicable to the Loan from time to time under Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
and charged a front-end fee, to be deducted from the Subsidiary Loan principal
-- 7--
amount, at a rate that equals the rate applied to the Loan under Section 2.03 of
this Agreement, and charged a fee of 0.01 percent on the amount of the
Subsidiary Loan principal amount; and (iv) repayable over a period not
exceeding the maturity of the Loan, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 5
years.
(b) 
The Participating DH Company shall be responsible for implementing its Energy
Efficiency Investments in accordance with the POM, PLESA, including the RPF,
and shall maintain its PIU throughout the duration of the Project for this purpose,
in a form and with functions, staffing, (under terms of reference, qualifications
and scope of responsibilities) and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank
and as further set forth in the POM. The Participating DH Company shall not
amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the POM without
prior approval of the Bank.
(c) 
The Participating DH Company shall submit, each year, its annual Investment
Program to such Borrower agency or agencies as required pursuant to the
Borrower's applicable legislation, for approval by such agency or agencies.
(d) 
The Participating DH Company shall obtain any necessary legal or administrative
permissions, licenses, permits, usage rights, authorizations and any other
consents as may be required for the implementation and maintenance of the
Energy Efficiency Investments under the Borrower's legal framework.
(e) 
The Participating DH Company shall comply with the financial covenants and all
other provisions set forth in its respective Project Agreement and its respective
Subsidiary Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOF and Minregion, shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of
its provisions.
3. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to establish tariffs in the district heating sector at a level that will
ensure that each Participating DH Company shall be able to produce for each of
its fiscal years, during Project implementation, after its fiscal year ending on
December 31, 2016, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its (i)
total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt service requirements
exceed the provision for depreciation; for purposes of this Section I.B. 3, the
terms "total revenues", and "total operating expenses" and other terms used in
this Section shall have the meanings set forth in the Participating DH Company's
Project Agreement.
(b) 
If the Borrower has failed to comply with paragraph (a) above, the Bank may,
without limitation to Article VII of the General Conditions, in its sole discretion,
-- 8--
reallocate the amounts of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance allocated to a non-
performing Participating DH Company to another Participating DH Company.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall ensure, and cause each Participating DH
Company to ensure, that the Project is carried out in accordance with the PLESA,
including the RPF, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision
of the PLESA, including the RPF, without prior written approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall: (a) prior to the commencement of any works
for Energy Efficiency Investments on each proposed site, submit to the Bank for its
approval (i) the proposed site for said measures and the related site-specific EMP or
checklist and/ or, if required pursuant to the RPF, a RAP, said site-specific plan or
checklist or RAP to be prepared in accordance with the requirements of the PLESA
(including the RPF) and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and to be duly
included in the proposed contracts for said measures; (ii) evidence that such EMP or
checklist and/ or RAP, as applicable, has been disclosed locally and that adequate and
meaningful consultations have been carried out on said EMP, checklist and/ or RAP, as
applicable; and (b) ensure that such measures are carried out in accordance with the EMP
and/ or RAP, as applicable.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank
and the Borrower's Ministry of Economic Development and Trade not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through
Minregion, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
-- 9--
3. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower . The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; (b) Direct Contracting; and (c)
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Annex
to this Schedule 2.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
-- 10--
Selection under a Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on
Consultants' Qualifications; 
(d) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (e)
Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f) Single-source procedures
for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1 .
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall:
(a) 
No later than December 31 of every year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on December 31, 2015, prepare and furnish to the Bank a
procurement progress report (Procurement Progress Report), in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) a description
of issues arising during the full procurement cycle under the Project, from design
through planning, bidding, contract implementation and completion; (ii) a list of
proposed measures and actions to be taken to resolve the issues identified under
(i) above; and (iii) a proposed timeline for the implementation of the said
measures and actions.
(b) 
No later than January 31 of every year during the implementation of the Project,
beginning on January 31, 2016, exchange views with the Bank on the results of
the Procurement Progress Report completed for the Borrower's previous calendar
year and thereafter implement such recommended measures, as agreed with the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article 1I of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-- 11--
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusiveof Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
works, 
non-consulting 
services, 
100%
consultants' services and EEI Implementation
Costs for Part 1 (a) of the Project:
i. Public 
Power-generating 
Utility 
30,150,000
"Chernihivska 
Teploelektrotcentral" 
of
Limited 
Liability 
Company 
Firm
"TehNova"
ii. Public Utility "Dniproteploenerho" of 
17,410,000
Dnipropetrovsk Oblast' Council
iii. Public 
Commercial 
Utility 
12,000,000
"Donetskmiskteplomerezha"
iv. State Municipal Utility "Ivano- 
0
Frankivskteplokomunenerho"
v. Public Utility "Kharkivski Teplovi 
96,545,000
Merezhi"
vi. Municipal 
Public 
Utility 
19,955,000
"Khersonteploenerho"
vii. Subsidiary Enterprise "Kirovohradteplo" 
24,860,000
of Limited Liability Company "Center of
Scientific and Technical Innovations of
Ukrainian Oil and Gas Academy"
viii. Public Utility "Miskteplovodenerhia" of 
13,330,000
Kamianets-Podilskyi City Council
ix. Oblast' 
Public 
Utility 
19,340,000
"Mykolaivoblteploenerho"
x. Public Utility of Vinnytsia City Council 
36,600,000
"Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho"
(2) Goods, non-consulting services, consultants' 
5,500,000 
100%
services, 
Training, 
audits 
and 
Incremental
Operating Costs for Part 2 of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
830,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
prsuaConditions
--
012--hi
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Amount due
premium 
pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated 
55,480,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
332,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
under Category (1) for each withdrawal to a Participating DH Company, unless
the Subsidiary Agreement related to the relevant Participating DH Company has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through MOF and Minregion, and the
relevant Participating DH Company, and a legal opinion, satisfactory to the
Bank, has been provided by counsel acceptable to the Bank, confirming that such
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or approved by the Borrower
and such Participating DH Company and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and such Participating DH Company in accordance with its terms.
2. 
The Closing Date is October 30, 2020.
-- 13--
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding
The procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the Open
Tender Procedure set forth in the Law on Public Procurement No. 1 197-VII, dated April 10, 2014
and amendments thereto, provided, however, that such procedure shall be subject to the
provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the "Guidelines for Procurement of Goods,
Works, and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World
Bank Borrowers" (January 2011) (the "Procurement Guidelines") and the following additional
provisions:
(i) 
Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Bank, shall be used.
(ii) 
The eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines.
(iii) 
After the public opening of the bids, information relating to the examination,
clarification, and evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards shall
not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this process
until the publication of the contract award notice.
(iv) 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents.
Qualification shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis, and merit points shall not be
used. 
Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the bidder's or prospective
bidder's capability and resources to effectively perform the contract, taking into
account objective and measurable factors, including: (i) relevant general and specific
experience, and satisfactory past performance and successful completion of similar
contracts over a given period; (ii) financial position; and where relevant (iii)
capability of construction and/or manufacturing facilities. The availability of
equipment, material and technical basis, including owning production facilities
and/or service centers within the territory of Ukraine shall not be required as part of
qualification requirements.
(v) 
Government-owned enterprises are eligible to bid only if they (i) are legally and
financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are not
dependent agencies of Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
(vi) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the evaluation criteria
specified in the bidding documents. 
Evaluation criteria other than price shall be
-- 14--
quantified in monetary terms. Merit points shall not be used, and no minimum point
or percentage value shall be assigned to the significance of price, in bid evaluation.
(vii) 
If required, bid security amount shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated
cost of the contract.
(viii) 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors/suppliers without a suitable
advance payment security.
(ix) 
No domestic preference shall be granted in bid evaluation on the basis of bidder
nationality, origin of goods or services, and/or preferential programs. Contracts shall
be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been determined: (i) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents, and (ii) to offer the lowest-
evaluated cost. A bidder shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis
of minor, non-substantial deviations.
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's estimate or
budget allocation ceiling without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(xi) 
All bids (including in the case when less than two bids are received) shall not be
rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall not be
solicited without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(xii) 
Restrictions to the contract amendments, as contemplated under Article 40 of the PPL
will not apply. With respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, the
Borrower shall obtain the Bank's no objection before agreeing to: (a) a material
extension of the stipulated time for performance of a contract; (b) any substantial
modification of the scope of services or other significant changes to the terms and
conditions of the contract; (c) any variation order or amendment which, singly or
combined with all variation orders or amendments previously issued, increases the
original contract amount by more than 15 percent; or (d) the proposed termination of
the contract. A copy of all contract amendments shall be provided to the Bank.
(xiii) 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the Bank shall include
provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals, found to have
engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and contract
financed out of the proceeds of the Bank financing shall provide that bidders,
suppliers, contractors and their subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service
providers, or suppliers to permit the Bank to inspect all accounts, records and other
documents relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract and to have
said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended
to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's inspection and audit rights provided
for in the Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the
Guidelines.
-- 15--
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2019 
3.85%
through June 15, 2031
On December 15, 2031 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-- 16--
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-- 17--
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"CHP" means a combined heat and power plant.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
5. 
"CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit within Minregion, established
pursuant to Minregion's Order Number #558 of November 27, 2013 and referred to in
Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means any site-specific environmental
management plan, prepared in accordance with the PLESA and the provisions of Section
I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank, and giving details the
specific actions, measures and policies designed to facilitate the achievement of the
objective of the PLESA, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of an Energy Efficiency
Investment to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the
Bank, including the budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, along with the
institutional and procedural measures needed to implement such actions, measures and
policies.
7. 
"EEI Implementation Costs" means a Participating DH Company's PIU's reasonable
operational costs related to implementation of the Energy Efficiency Investments
financed under the Loan, including on account of vehicle rental; miscellaneous utilities;
stationary and office supplies and equipment; operation, maintenance and spare parts of
equipment; consumables; transportation; local travel; communication and advertisement
costs; salaries of PIU staff, but excluding consultants' services and salaries or honoraria
of officials and employees of the Borrower's civil services, as such costs are included in
the budget of a Participating DH Company's Investment Program and agreed with the
Bank.
8. 
"Energy Efficiency Investments" means a Participating DH Company's selected energy
efficiency investments at selected sites, included and specified in such Participating DH
Company's Investment Program, and selected in accordance with the criteria and
mechanisms set forth in the POM.
-- 18--
9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the 
"International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
10. 
"IHS" mean an individual building-level heat sub-station.
11. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the CPMU's reasonable and necessary incremental
expenditures related to the management and implementation of the Project, all based on
periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank, including on account of vehicle rental;
miscellaneous utilities; stationary and office supplies and equipment; operation,
maintenance and spare parts of equipment; consumables; transportation; local travel;
communication and advertisement costs; but excluding consultants' services and salaries
or honoraria of officials and employees of the Borrower's civil services.
12. 
"Investment Program" means a program setting forth a variety of measures, approved by
such Borrower agency or agencies and in accordance with such appropriate procedures as
required pursuant to the Borrower's applicable legislation, to improve reliability and
assure efficiency of a district heating system, and including obligations of a Participating
DH Company on (i) construction, renovation, rehabilitation, modernization of assets; and
(ii) improvement of the quality of service, 
including necessary calculations and
substantiations as well as identifying sources of financing and implementation schedules,
and acceptable to the Bank.
13. 
"Ministry of Finance" or "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and includes
any successor thereto.
14. 
"Minregion" means the Borrower's Ministry of Regional Development, Building and
Communal Services and includes any successor thereto.
15. 
"Participating DH Company" means each of the following district heating companies (a)
Public Power-generating Utility "Chernihivska Teploelektrotcentral" of Limited Liability
Company From "TehNova", established and operating pursuant to the Chernihivska
Teploelektrotcentral 
Legislation; 
(b) 
Public 
Utility 
"Dniproteploenerho", 
of
Dnipropetrovsk 
Oblast 
Council, 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the
Dniproteploenerho 
Legislation; 
(c) 
Public 
Commercial 
Utility
"Donetskmiskteplomerezha", 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the
Donetskmiskteplomerezha 
Legislation; 
(d) 
State 
Municipal 
Utility 
"Ivano-
Frankivskteplokomunenerho", 
established and operating pursuant to the Ivano-
Frankivskteplokomunenerho 
Legislation; 
(e) 
Public Utility "Kharkivski 
Teplovi
Merezhi", 
established and operating pursuant to the Kharkiv Teplovi Merezhi
Legislation; (f) Municipal Public Utility Khersonteploenerho, established and operating
pursuant 
to 
the 
Khersonteploenerho 
Legislation; 
(g) 
Subsidiary 
Enterprise
"Kirovohradteplo" of Limited Liability Company "Center of Scientific and Technical
Innovations of Ukrainian Oil and Gas Academy" established and operating pursuant to
the Kirovohradteplo Legislation; (h) Public Utility "Miskteplovodenerhia" of Kamianets-
Podilskyi City Council, established and operating pursuant to the Miskteplovodenerhia
Legislation, (i) Oblast Public Utility "Mykolaivoblteploenerho", 
established and
operating pursuant to the Mykolaivoblteploenerho Legislation; and (j) Public Utility of
-- 19--
Vinnytsia City Council "Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho", established and operating pursuant
to the Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho Legislation.
16. 
"PIU" means a Participating DH Company's project implementation unit referred to in
Section I.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"PLESA" means the program level environmental and social assessment (including the
RPF) prepared by the Borrower, through Minregion, for the Project dated November 21,
2013, being the framework setting forth the modalities for site-specific environmental
screening and procedures/actions for the preparation and implementation of environmental
assessments and EMPs under the Project, setting forth the set of mitigation, monitoring,
and institutional measures and procedures required under the Project, in order to
eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement said measures, as the same may
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"POM" or "Project Operational Manual" means the operational manual adopted by
Minregion, and each Participating DH Company and referred to in Section I.A.1(a) and
I.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the operational requirements,
criteria, institutional arrangements and operational procedures for the implementation of
the Project, including, inter alia, procurement, financial management, disbursement,
accounting, audit, environmental and social safeguards requirements, monitoring and
evaluation arrangements, as amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated April
4, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means a Participating DH Company.
22. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means each of the following: (a) Articles of
Agreement approved by Protocol of General Shareholders' Meeting of October 14, 2013
pursuant to which Public Power-generating Utility "Chernihivska Teploelektrotcentral"
of Limited Liability Company Firm 
"TehNova" was established and operating
(Chernihivska Teploelektrotcentral Legislation); (b) Decision of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast
Council No. 661-22/y, dated December 18, 2009, pursuant to which Public Utility
"Dniproteploenerho" of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast' Council was established and is operating
(Dniproteploenerho Legislation); (c) Charter approved by Decree of Head of Donetsk
City Council No. 1216, dated September 17, 2008 pursuant to which Public Commercial
Utility 
"Donetskmiskteplomerezha" 
was 
established 
and 
operating
(Donetskmiskteplomerezha Legislation); (d) Charter approved by Decision of Ivano-
Frankivsk City Council No. VII, dated September 12, 2006, pursuant to which Ivano-
State Municipal Utility "Ivano-Frankivskteplokomunenerho", was established and is
-- 20 --
operating (Ivano-Frankivskteplokomunenerho 
Legislation); (e) Charter approved by
Decision of Kharkiv City Council No. 952, dated September 30, 2003, pursuant to which
Public Utility "Kharkivski Teplovi Merezhi" was established and is operating (Kharkiv
Teplovi Merezhi Legislation); (f) Charter approved by Decision of Kherson City Council
No. 506 dated December 28, 2011, pursuant to which Municipal Public Utility
"Khersonteploenerho" 
was 
established 
and 
is 
operating 
(Khersonteploenerho
Legislation); (g) Articles of Agreement approved by Protocol of General Meeting No. 20,
dated September 28, 2004 pursuant to which Subsidiary Enterprise "Kirovohradteplo" of
Limited Liability Company "Center of Scientific and Technical Innovations of Ukrainian
Oil and Gas Academy" was established and is operating (Kirovohradteplo Legislation);
(h) Charter approved by Decision of Kamyanets-Podilskyi City Council executive
committee No. 613, dated May 
16, 
2013, pursuant to which Public Utility
"Miskteplovodenerhia" of Kamianets-Podilskyi City Councilwas established and is
operating (Miskteplovodenerhia Legislation), (i) Charter approved by Head of Mykolaiv
Regional Administration, dated November 03, 2006, pursuant to which Oblast' Public
Utility 
"Mykolaivoblteploenerho" 
was 
established 
and 
is 
operating
(Mykolaivoblteploenerho Legislation); and (j) Decision of Vinnytsia City Council No.
905, dated August 31, 2012, pursuant to which Public Utility of Vinnytsia City Council
"Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho" was established and is operating (Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho
Legislation).
23. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means each site-specific plan relating to land
acquisition and/or resettlement or economic displacement of Project-affected persons, as
the case may be, prepared under the Project in accordance with the Resettlement Policy
Framework and the provisions of Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
acceptable to the Bank.
24. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework document adopted by
the Borrower, through Minregion, and each Participating DH Company dated November
21, 2013, attached as an Annex to the PLESA and describing the process and procedures
to be taken, the plans to be prepared, and the mitigation and compensation measures, and
consultation and information processes to be followed in the event of land acquisition or
resettlement or economic displacement of persons affected by the Project as a result of
implementation of the Project.
25. 
"SCADA" means a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system of hardware and
software for monitoring and control generation, transmission and distribution of heat of a
district heating system.
26. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means each agreement between MOF, Minregion, and each
Participating DH Company, referred to in Section I.B. I and 2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the respective proceeds of the
Loan available to each Participating DH Company.
27. 
"Training" means Project-related training, and includes Project related study tours,
training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, not included under
service providers' contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment
rental, reasonable and necessary local and international travel by participants in training
-- 21 --
activities, reasonable lodging and accommodation, subsistence and local and international
per diem of trainees and trainers, registration, tuition and facilitators' fees, translation and
interpretation, and other training related miscellaneous costs, all based on budgets
acceptable to the Bank.
-- 22 --
