OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8439-SC
Loan Agreement
(Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan
With a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option)
between
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 9, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8439-SC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated October 9, 2014, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
SEYCHELLES 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven million Dollars ($7,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one half of one
percent (0.50%), of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
If, at the Borrower's request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may
agree, the Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each
extension of the Closing Date shall be at the rate of one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the amount of the Loan available for withdrawal upon such extension.
If the Borrower elects to capitalize the fee from the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself such
amounts required to pay such fee. If the Borrower elects to pay the fee from its
own resources, the Borrower shall pay such fee not later than sixty days after the
-2-
date of the notice given by the Bank to the Borrower confirming the extension of
the Closing Date.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the
principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that (i) the average maturity
of such Withdrawal does not exceed 18 years from the Withdrawal Date
and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from
the Withdrawal Date (or such other average maturity and/or final
maturity as may be generally applicable to loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower at the time of such agreement), and (ii) such repayment
provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to
the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
-3-
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09. 
At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank,
refund any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such
amount to the Loan Account for further withdrawals. 
Upon such refund, the
repayment schedule shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
2.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative 
is the Borrower's minister responsible for
finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
P.O. Box 313
Liberty House
Victoria, Mah&
Seychelles
Facsimile:
248-422 58 93
6. 03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
By
uthorized Representative
Name: ri 
.
L-Ar'otm
Title: 1405tei t 
FOft0AlJ? 
rfAgi AWP
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
MAXY-. WA 
2IL
Title: 1AIA41CM Vlfta0f-, S.5c4VO-5S
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program include the following:
(i) 
The 
Borrower's 
National 
Assembly 
has 
adopted 
the 
Disaster
Management Act, which provides a legal framework for disaster risk
management including both a national disaster risk management plan and
an integrated emergency management system.
(ii) 
The Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers has approved an updated policy for
disaster risk management submitted by the Minister for Environment and
Energy, which establishes a fully functional early warning system,
increases preparedness through updated sector contingency plans, and
provides for the carrying out of information dissemination activities.
(iii) 
The Borrower has established a historic loss and damage database in
collaboration with the United Nations International Strategy for Disaster
Reduction and the Indian Ocean Commission, which is updated annually
and fully accessible to all.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollar)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
6,965,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
35,000
(3) Fee payable pursuant to Section 2.04 of 
0
this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
7,000,000
-7-
C. 
Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.04 of Agreement. If the Closing Date is
extended pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the Borrower elects to
finance from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no withdrawal
shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full
of such fee.
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.
I. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied, based
on evidence satisfactory to it, that a state of emergency exists in the Borrower's
territory as a result of a natural disaster.
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a
request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a
review of the Borrower's progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the
Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect. Upon the giving of such
notice, no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless
and until the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange
of views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account ("Deposit Account") designated by the Borrower and
acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
F. 
Audit
Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank;
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request; and
-8-
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and
their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.
G. 
Excluded Expenditures. 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
H. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is September 30, 2017.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15, the first installment to be payable on the twenty-first
(21st) Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount and the last installment to be payable on the thirty-sixth (36 ) Payment
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each
installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-sixteenth (1/16) of the
Disbursed Amount. 
The last installment shall be equal to the remaining
outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
4. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
- 10-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
3. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated June 27, 2014, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
4. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1 .
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
- 12-
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article 11 are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
- 13 -
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Fixed Spread" is modified to read as follows:
""Fixed Spread' means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank's fixed spread for
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington,
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per
annum; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default
Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02(e), that is applicable to an amount
of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed
Rate, the "Fixed Spread" means the Bank's fixed spread in effect at
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of
the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount;
(b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for
purposes of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, "Fixed
Spread" means the Bank's fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon
a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.
(d) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
(e) 
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
(f) 
The term "Variable Spread" is modified to read as follows:
"Variable Spread' means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
(1) the Bank's standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the
Reference Rate, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans
that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. In the
case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, "Variable
Spread" applies separately to each of such Currencies.
(g) 
A new term "Withdrawal" is added to read as follows:
- 14-
""Withdrawal' 
means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01."
(h) 
A new term "Withdrawal Date" is added to read as follows:
""Withdrawal Date' means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
Bank pays the Withdrawal."
