LOAN NUMBER 8329-JM
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Social Protection Project)
between
JAMAICA
ano
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2014, between JAMAICA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND. DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000)
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may -withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MLSS with the
assistance of: (a) the MOE, the MOH, the PIOJ and the MLGCD for purposes of
Parts I and 2 of the Project; (b) the MOFP for purposes of Part 3 of the Project;
and (c) the PIOJ for purposes of Part 4 of the Project; all in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that the
PATH Cabinet Decisions have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely in the opinion of the Bank the
implementation of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the
event specified in. Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of namely, that the Borrower
has revised and adopted the Social Protection Project Operations Manual.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Loan Agreement, but in
no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expires on July 24, 2015.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Planning.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica
Facsimile:
876-924-9291
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: gTGP# C--^, 
TC l4 
)
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
a 
.
r
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to.support the Borrower in further strengthening
its social protection system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improvin! Effectiveness of the PATH
1. 
Carrying out activities to improve the effectiveness of the PATH including:
(a) 
providing PATH Grants; and
(b) 
strengthening and improving the administrative systems for delivery of
the PATH including, scaling up case management, monitoring and
evaluation; and implementing activities to enable PATH Beneficiaries to
graduate from the program through provision of consultant services,
goods, training and operating costs required for that purpose.
Part 2. Improvine Effectiveness and Scale Up of Steps-to-Work Program
Carrying out activities to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to implement the
Steps-to-Work Program (StW Program) including: (a) providing training and structured
personalized coaching and placement services to StW participants to facilitate
employment and their graduation from the PATH; (b) providing Stipends to trainees; (c)
developing knowledge products to improve the design and operation of the StW Program;
(d) strengthening the capacity of the StW Central Unit and parish offices of MLSS to
carry out their responsibilities; (e) strengthening the StW Program monitoring and
evaluation system, including designing and implementing a management information
system for StW Program to track StW Program participants and their progress; through
provision of Conditional Cash Transfer Payments, consultants services, training, goods,
and operating costs required for that purpose.
Part 3. Suportine Implementation and Operationalization of the Public Sector
Pension Reform
Carrying out activities to improve the administration of the public sector system
including: (a) conducting a public information campaign for the public sector workers
and disseminating relevant information to inform them of the changes introduced in the
public sector pension system; (b) support the implementation of reform measures
contained in the White Paper; (c) building the capacity of the Pension Administration
Unit on organizational development, change management and implementation of the
Earnings Database to record contributions and earning information of public employees;
-6-
(d) setting up the Pensions Policy Unit to monitor the implementation of pension reforms,
and, (e) strengthening the capacity of the Human Resources Unit; all through provision of
goods, training, and consultants services required for that purpose.
Part 4. Operational Support to the Implementation of the Social Protection Strategy
Supporting the implementation of the Social Protection Strategy, including:
(a) developing a policy in key areas of poverty reduction and aging; (b) conducting
research and relevant diagnostic assessments in priority areas such as unemployment
insurance; (c) disseminating the Social Protection Strategy; (d) developing and
implementing a monitoring and evaluation system for the implementation of the Social
Protection Strategy; and (e) strengthening the capacity of Agencies involved in the
implementation of the Project; all through provision of consulting services, training and
goods required for that purpose.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Imiplementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
through MLSS be responsible for the overall Project oversight and
implementation.
(b) 
maintain, within the MLSS, throughout Project implementation, key staff
for Project implementation, including without limitation a Project
manager and 
procurement and 
financial 
management 
personnel
dedicated full-time to the Project, one part-time component coordinator,
and other staff that may be necessary in adequate numbers, all with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Operations Manuals
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Social Protection Project Operations Manual, and the relevant provisions of the
PATH Operations Manual and the StW Operations Manual; and (b) except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Social Protection Project Operations
Manual and relevant provisions of the PATH Operations Manual and the StW
Operations Manual shall not be amended, waived, suspended or abrogated and in
case of any inconsistency between the provisions of either manual and those of
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall not later than 12 months after effectiveness of the Project,
update and adopt the PATH Operations Manual and the StW Operations Manual
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-8-
D. 
Other Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Bank is promptly informed of any developments in the legislation or
regulations of the Borrower and/or the rules or procedures of the
Borrower, including information on the PATH Cabinet Decisions that
may affect the performance of the Project; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Agencies which are required to provide services under
the Project are made aware of the requirements of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines and take all actions necessary to support the carrying out of
the Project in compliance with such requirements.
2. 
No later than March 31 of each year during Project implementation, the
Borrower shall prepare, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, an annual
internal audit plan for the PATH. The Borrower shall furnish each audit plan to
the Bank promptly upon its preparation, afford the Bank two weeks to exchange
views with the Borrower on such plan, and thereafter implement such plan,
taking into account the Bank's views on the matter.
3. 
The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 2014 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish by notice to the Borrower, establish and maintain a
management information system for the StW Program satisfactory to the Bank.
Section HI. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of four months and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the period.
-9-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the four-month within
forty five days from the end of the four months in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than September 30 of each year.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections l and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
- 10 -
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used
for procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding; (b)
National Competitive Bidding; (c) Shopping; (d) procurement under Framework
Agreements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank; (e) Direct Contracting; (f) Force Account; (g) Well-established Private
Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found
acceptable to the Bank; and (h) Procurement under Public Private Partnership
Arrangements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable
to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank; (g) Selection of consultants under
Indefinite Delivery Contract or Price Agreement; (h) Procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (i) Single-source
procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Transitional Provisions in respect of Procurement
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section I.C (Anti-Corruption) and Section III
(Procurement) of this Schedule 2: (i) to the extent that the procurement of any
goods, non-consulting services, or consultants' services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Original Loan was initiated prior to December 5, 2013; and (ii)
there are no proceeds remaining under the Original Loan to finance such goods,
non-consulting services, or consultants' services; then, on an exceptional basis
only and subject to the Bank's prior no-objection, Section III of this Schedule 2
shall not apply to the proceeds of the funds from the Loan utilized to finance
such goods, non-consulting 
services or consultants' 
services, and the
procurement of such goods, non-consulting services or consultants' services;
provided, however, that the provisions of Section 
III of Schedule 2
(Procurement) to the Original Loan Agreement shall apply to the procurement of
such goods, non-consulting services and consultants' services.
-11 -
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes
(1) Conditional Cash Transfer
Payments:
(a) under Part 1(a) of the 
28,035,000
Project 
100%
(b) under Part 2 (b) of the 
3,029,000
Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
8,836,000 
100%
services, Training and
Operating Costs under
Parts 1 (b), 2 (a), 2(c),
2(d), 2(e), 3 and 4 of the
Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
-12-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 14, 2013 for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) (a).
2. 
The Closing Date is March 30, 2018.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table' sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15 
2.13%
Beginning on May 15, 2020 through
November 15, 2042
On May 15, 2043 
2.02%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the 'Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-14-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Agencies" means, collectively, all the Borrower's agencies involved in the
implementation of the Social Protection Strategy.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Conditional Cash Transfer Payments" means cash grants in the form of PATH
Grants or Stipends to beneficiaries which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in
the PATH Operations Manual and the StW Operations Manual, respectively.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
6. 
"Earnings Database" means a software application supporting the Borrower's
public employees' pension administration system.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8, 
"Human Resources Unit" means a unit within the Borrower's MOFP responsible
for implementing human resource policies.
9. 
"MLGCD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government and
Community Development or its legal successor thereto.
10. 
"MLSS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labour and Social Security or its
legal successor thereto.
11. 
"MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education or its legal successor
thereto.
12. 
"MOFP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Planning or its legal
successor thereto.
13. 
"MOH" or the "Ministry of Health means the Borrower's ministry responsible
for health or its legal successor thereto.
- 16-
14. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of
Project implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including office
equipment and supplies, reasonable commercial banking charges and fees,
vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs,
operation and maintenance of office equipment, office administration costs,
utilities, travel, and per diem supervision, and salaries of locally contracted
employees (none of which would have been incurred in the absence of the
Project), excluding salaries of civil servants.
15. 
"Original Loan" means an amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000)
provided to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Original Loan Agreement.
16. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the legal agreement for the Social Protection
Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated June 10, 2008 as amended to
the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7555-JM).
17. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
18. 
"PATH" means the Borrower's Programme of Advancement Through Health and
Education, established pursuant to the PATH Cabinet Decisions and operating
under the PATH Operations Manual.
19. 
"PATH Beneficiaries" mean the individuals in the PATH Eligible Households
that have voluntarily enrolled in the PATH.
20. 
"PATH Cabinet Decisions" means the Cabinet Decisions on the establishment of
the Social Safety Net, Cabinet Decision No. MLSS/01, dated February 14, 2001;
and Cabinet Decision No. 15/01 dated April 17, 2001.
21. 
"PATH Co-responsibility" means health and education responsibilities assumed
by PATH Eligible Households, as detailed in the PATH Operations Manual.
22. 
"PATH Eligible Households" means the households in the Borrower's territory,
each of which meets the criteria set forth in the PATH Operations Manual.
23. 
"PATH Grants" means the health and education conditional cash transfers under
the PATH for poor children and youth in PATH Eligible Households which
comply with the applicable PATH Co-responsibility.
24. 
"PATH Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual for the PATH, dated
March 18, 2013, satisfactory to the Bank, which contains, inter alia: (a) the
organizational structure for the PATH, including the roles and responsibilities of
each entity or agency involved in its implementation; (b) the operational cycle of
the PATH, including eligibility criteria, detailed rules and procedures for the
-17-
Conditional Cash Transfer Payments; (c) the indicators to be used in the
monitoring and evaluation of the PATH; and (d) monitoring and evaluation
procedures.
25. 
"Pension Administration Unit" is the unit in MOFP responsible for the
processing of retirement benefits under the Borrower's pension scheme.
26. 
"Pensions Policy Unit" means a unit proposed to be established within MOFP
responsible for analyzing, monitoring and carrying out research on pension
policies.
27. 
"Planning Institute of Jamaica" or "PIOJ" means a body corporate established
and operating pursuant to Act 2 of 1984 or its legal successor thereto.
28. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
29. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated December 5, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
30. 
"Social Protection Project Operations Manual" means the manual dated October
2008 including all appendices and schedules thereto, satisfactory to the Bank and
adopted by the Borrower setting forth the policies and procedures that apply to
the carrying out of the Project, which include, inter alia: (a) the roles and
responsibilities of each of the agencies or entities involved in Project
implementation; (b) the staffing requirements for the Project; (c) the estimated
implementation schedule; 
(d) procedures for accessing, disbursing and
accounting for funds under the Project; (e) the indicators to be used in the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (f) procedures for Project monitoring,
supervision and evaluation, including the format and content of the Project
Reports; (g) Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and (h) procurement and financial
management procedures as the same may be amended from time to time with the
prior written approval of the Bank, and such term shall include any schedules,
tables and annexes to the Social Protection Projects Operation Manual.
31. 
"Social Protection Strategy" means the Borrower's policy document developed
by the PIOJ in 2013 that sets out, inter alia, the conceptual framework,
government priorities and institutional roles for the delivery of effective social
protection in Jamaica.
32. 
"Stipend" means a monetary sum paid by the Borrower to eligible StW
beneficiaries.
- 18 -
33. 
"StW Central Unit" means a unit within MLSS responsible for the administration
of the StW Program.
34. 
"StW Operations Manual" means the manual including all appendices and
schedules thereto, satisfactory to the Bank and adopted by the Borrower setting
forth the policies and procedures that apply to the carrying out of the StW
Program as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written
approval of the Bank.
35. 
"StW Program" means the Borrower's program for the sustainable development
of human capital.
36. 
"Training" means expenditures other than for consultants' services for: (a)
reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers
and trainees in connection with their training and by non-consultant training
facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d) training material
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses.
37. 
"White Paper" means a paper dated October 2013, the blue-print that guides the
Borrower's preparation of legislation on the public sector pension reform.
