F OFFICIAL 
J
DOCUMENTS
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF015923
Strategic Climate Fund
Loan Agreement
(Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Project- Phase II)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund)
Dated 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF015923
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated Febr, 
2014, entered into between the
REPUBLIC 
OF 
MOZAMBIQUE 
("orrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "World Bank"), acting not in its individual
capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund
("SCF").
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six million five hundred
thousand United States Dollars ($6,500,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the SCF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%).
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the
Standard Conditions and the Amended and Restated Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The SCF-PPCR Grant Agreement has been signed and delivered, all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(c) 
The Project Implementation Manual shall have been updated and
adopted by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank.
-3-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following:
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its minister at the time responsible for planning and development.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Planning and Development
Av. Ahmed S. Toure, 21, 4th floor
Maputo, Republic of Mozambique
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MOBANCO 
(258) 21 492-268 
(258) 21 492-625
Maputo
6.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Maputo, Republic of Mozambique, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorizc-Kpresentative
Name: 
LA L OL CLA-erevie c
Title: _ _ 
i 
_1 
_ s_
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as an implementing entity of the
Strategic Climate Fund)
By
Authorized Representative
Name: N)c=unk- R. 
rde-c I
Title: 
IN___ncc__ toy__
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a) improving the
coverage and conditions of its roads and bridges; (b) strengthening its institutional
capacity to manage and administer the road sector; (c) establishing financing mechanisms
for road maintenance; (d) promoting the use of local resources in roads construction and
management; and (e) improving its road transport safety.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Overhead Costs
(a) 
Administrative costs
Support to the Project Implementing Entity and ANE, at national and provincial
levels, to strengthen their administrative capacity through the provision of goods,
technical assistance and Operating Costs.
(b) 
Capacity building
Strengthening the technical capacity of the Project Implementing Entity, ANE,
and the Borrower's ministry of public works and housing through:
(i) 
the provision of technical assistance in the areas of: (A) financial
management; (B) procurement and contract management; (C) control
systems; 
(D) 
information technology; 
(E) 
road management and
maintenance; and (F) training to national and provincial staff; and
(ii) 
the carrying out of studies on:
(A) 
national and provincial roads strategies, plans and budgets;
(B) 
financial, technical, and procurement audits, including methods
to strengthen financial management and procedures for the
processing of internal financial audits;
(C) 
highway information and management systems;
(D) 
climate resilience in road design and maintenance; and
(E) 
financial management systems.
-6-
(c) 
Additional Programs
Road Safety Program
(i) 
Carrying out of safety related civil works on the Borrower's road
network.
(ii) 
Development of a road safety data management system.
Part B: Maintenance of Road Network
Carrying out of civil works for the maintenance of the Borrower's paved and
unpaved road network, including routine and periodic maintenance, local repairs
and road markings.
Part C: Investments
(a) 
National Road Rehabilitation and Upgrade Program
Rehabilitation of the Jardim-Benfica and Xai-Xai-Chissibuca sections of the NI
Road, including widening, surfacing, shape correction, strengthening and
upgrading of the existing pavement 
and repairs of minor drainage structures,
geometric and structural improvements to enhance traffic capacity and safety for
vehicles and pedestrians.
(b) 
Engineering Services
Provision of consultants' services for: (i) the supervision of the civil works
referred to in Part C(a) of the Project; (ii) the supervision of the civil works to
rehabilitate the Borrower's road that runs from Massinga to Nhachengue; and
(iii) the design of engineering plans to ensure the Project's sustainability.
Part D: Emergency related works in the Limpopo River Basin
(a) 
Immediate Emergency Works: Carrying out of small emergency works (spot
interventions), including associated consulting services.
(b) 
Medium Term Restoration/Rehabilitation Works: Carrying out of works related
to substantive medium and long term technical solutions to be prepared under
Design and Build (DBT) methodology using an Output and Performance Based
(OPRC) type of contract 
including 
associated 
consulting services 
and
contingencies.
-7-
Part E: Program for Climate Resilient Rural Road Infrastructure
(a) 
Development of national technical design standards and specifications for
climate resilient roads, including (i) the carrying out of a review of existing
design standards and construction maintenance approaches to ensure these better
address climatic risks; and (ii) 
development of technical standards and
maintenance approaches for paved and unpaved classified road network to
include capacity-building programs for local contractors and service providers.
(b) 
Piloting of climate resilient road designs, including the development and piloting
of improved maintenance approaches to include capacity-building programs for
local contractors and service providers.
Part F: Immediate Response Contingency Fund
Establishment of an immediate response mechanism to facilitate access to rapid
financing for disaster response in the aftermath of a national disaster to be
triggered through formal declaration of national or regional state of emergency
by the Borrower.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under the
terms and conditions approved by the World Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement") and
provided under Section I.A. of the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions without the prior written agreement of the
World Bank.
B. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out: (i) under the strategic
direction and coordination of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing; and (ii)
under the overall responsibility for implementation, coordination and oversight of
the Project Implementing Entity.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Road Fund as the Project Implementing Entity,
throughout the implementation of the Project.
C. 
EAs, RPF, and ARAP
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) carry out the
Project in accordance with the mitigation measures, rules and procedures defined
in: (i) the EAs prepared in respect of the civil works under Part A(c)(i), Part B;
Part C(a), and Part D of the Project; and (ii) the RPF; and ARAP prepared in
respect of Part C(a) f the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank; and
(b) maintain an environmental management officer with responsibility for
implementing the EAs, RPF, and ARAP for all applicable activities undertaken
throughout the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity and ANE to ensure
that no civil works under the Project shall be eligible for financing under this
Agreement, unless:
-9-
(a) 
an environmental screening has been carried out for the proposed civil
works; and if said environmental 
screening concludes 
that an
environmental management plan is required, said environmental plan has
been prepared by the Borrower and approved by the World Bank for
implementing the proposed civil works;
(b) 
if the proposed civil works involves involuntary acquisition of land, a
resettlement action plan has been prepared in accordance with the
principles set out in the RPF and said resettlement action plan has been
approved by the World Bank for implementing the proposed civil works.
3. 
Except as the Borrower and the World Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to
enforce the EAs, the RPF, or the ARAP referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of this
paragraph or any provision thereof.
4. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the EAs, RPF, and ARAP referred to
in sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph and those of this Agreement, the terms of
this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Flood Response Team
1. 
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter maintain, at all times during the
implementation of the Project, a Flood Response Team with a mandate,
composition and resources satisfactory to the World Bank (the "Flood Response
Team").
2. 
The Flood Response Team, supported by a technical support group, shall be
responsible for implementing Part D of the Project.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis
of the indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover
the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
-10-
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than June 30, 2017.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each fiscal quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to disclose the audited
Financial Statements in a manner acceptable to the World Bank. The Borrower
agrees that upon receipt of the Financial Statements, the World Bank shall make
them available to the public in accordance with the Bank's policy on access to
information.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
-11-
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II
and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive 
Bidding. Except 
as otherwise provided 
in
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services. The
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods
shall be used: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to provisions of
paragraph 3 of this Part B; (b) Direct Contracting; and (c) Shopping.
3. 
Additional Procedures for National Competitive Bidding (NCB):
(a) 
General
The procedures to be followed for NCB shall be those set forth in the
Regulation, 
with 
the modifications 
described 
in the 
following
paragraphs.
(b) 
Eligibility
No restriction based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall
apply. Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB without
restriction and shall not be subject to any unjustified requirement which
will affect their ability to participate in the bidding process such as, but
not limited to, the proof that they are not under bankruptcy proceedings
in the Borrower's territory; have a local representative; have an attorney
resident and domiciled in the Borrower's territory; form a joint venture
with a local firm In cases of joint ventures, they shall confirm joint and
several liability.
Prior registration, obtaining a license or agreement shall not be a
requirement for any bidder to participate in the bidding process.
Borrower's government-owned 
enterprises or institutions shall be
eligible to participate in the bidding process only if they can establish
that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law, and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower.
-12-
(c) 
Bidding Documents
Standard bidding documents acceptable to the World Bank shall be used
for any procurement process under NCB.
(d) 
Preferences
No domestic preference shall be given for domestic bidders and/or for
domestically manufactured goods.
(e) 
Applicable Procurement Method Under the Regulation
Subject to these NCB exceptions, procurement under NCB shall be
carried out in accordance with the Regulation's public competition
(Concurso Pfiblico) method.
(f) 
Bid Preparation Time
Bidders shall be given at least twenty-eight (28) days from the date of
the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents,
whichever is later, to prepare and submit bids.
(g) 
Bid Opening
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for their
submission in accordance with the procedures stated in the bidding
documents.
(h) 
Bid Evaluation
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents,
and all criteria so specified, and only such criteria so specified shall be
used to determine whether a bidder is qualified; the evaluation of the
bidder's qualifications should be conducted separately from the technical
and commercial evaluation of the bid. 
Qualification criteria shall be
applied on a pass or fail basis.
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria
declared in the bidding documents; criteria other than price shall be
quantified in monetary terms.
A contract shall be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the lowest-
evaluated and substantially responsive bid.
Bidders shall not be eliminated on the basis of minor, non-substantial
deviations.
(i) 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the World
Bank's prior concurrence.
-13-
(j) 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
The Borrower shall establish an effective and independent complaint
mechanism allowing bidders to complain and to have their complaint
handled in a timely manner.
(k) 
Right to Inspect/Audit
In accordance with paragraph 1.16(e) of the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the
Loan shall provide that: (i) the bidders, suppliers, and contractors and
their subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers or
suppliers, shall permit the World Bank, at its request, to inspect their
accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of bids
and contract performance, and to have them audited by auditors
appointed by the World Bank; and (ii) the deliberate and material
violation by the bidder, supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such
provision 
may 
amount 
to 
obstructive 
practice 
as 
defined 
in
paragraph 1.16(a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines.
(1) 
Fraud and Corruption
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the
Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and
corruption as 
defined 
in paragraph 
1.16(a) of the Procurement
Guidelines. The World Bank may sanction a firm or individual, at any
time, in accordance with prevailing World Bank sanctions procedures,
including by publicly declaring such firm or individual ineligible, either
indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a World
Bank-financed contract; and (ii) to be a nominated sub-contractor,
consultant, supplier or service provider of an otherwise eligible firm
being awarded an World Bank-financed contract.
(in) 
Debarment under National System
The World Bank may recognize, if requested by the Borrower, exclusion
from participation as a result of debarment under the national system,
provided that the debarment is for offenses involving fraud, corruption or
similar misconduct, and further provided that the World Bank confirms
that the particular debarment procedure afforded due process and the
debarment decision is final.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- 
and Cost-based 
Selection. 
Except 
as otherwise provided 
in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
-14-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used: (a) Selection based on
Consultants' 
Qualifications; 
(b) 
Least-Cost 
Selection 
(c) 
Quality-Based
Selection; (d) Single-Source Selection; (e) Single-source procedures for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f) Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the World Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Percentage of
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Expenditures
SCF/PPCR Loan 
SCF/PPCR Grant 
to be Financed
Allocated 
Allocated 
(inclusive of
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(expressed in USD) 
Taxes)
Goods, works, 
6,500,000 
9,250,000 
100%
services, Training and
Operating Costs under
Part E of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,500,000 
9,250,000
-15-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made (a) from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this
Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
Date Payment Due 
(expressed as a percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15:
commencing July 15, 2024, to and including July 
1%
15, 2033
commencing January 15, 2034, to and including 
2%
July 15, 2053
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Additional Credit 11" means the additional financing to be provided by the
World Bank in support of the additional activities to the Original Project (as
hereinafter defined) as fully described and restated in Schedule I to this
Agreement.
2. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of an involuntary taking of
land under the Project, had or would have their: (a) standard of living adversely
affected; or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive assets
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work
or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently;
and "Affected Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
3. 
"Amended and Restated Financing Agreement" means the agreement for the
Additional Financing I for Phase II of the Project dated June 28, 2011 entered
into the Borrower and the World Bank.
4. 
"Amended and Restated Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
hereof to be entered into the Road Fund and the World Bank for the purpose of
implementation of the Project
5. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
6. 
"ANE" means the Borrower's national road administration, an administrative
autonomous public institution established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree
number 20, dated May 23, 2003, as amended in April 30, 2007, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette number 22, dated May 30, 2007.
7. 
"ARAP" means the abbreviated resettlement action plan in connection with the
carrying out of Part C(a) of the Project, dated February 1, 2011, prepared by
ANE and adopted by the Roads Fund (as hereinafter defined) through an
administrative order of its chairman also dated February 1, 2011, and disclosed
on February 4, 2011, which sets out principles and procedures governing land
acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as
well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure
compliance with said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with
the written agreement of the World Bank.
-18-
8. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
9. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
10. 
"EAs" means "Environmental Assessments", the World Bank's assessments
referred to in paragraph C.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in
paragraph 3 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
I1. 
"FRT" means flood response team as referred under Section I.D of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
12. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenditures which would not exist
absent the Project, incurred on account of office supplies, vehicle operation and
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, rental expenses, office
maintenance costs, utilities, and domestic travel cost for Project staff for Project
supervision.
13. 
"PIM" means the project implementation manual referred to in paragraph 2 of
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
14. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
15. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated July 26, 2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Road Fund as defined here below.
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Decree
number: 22/2003 of May 20, 2003, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
number 22, dated May 28, 2003, which governs the Project Implementing Entity.
18. 
"Regulation" means the Recipient's rules on Procurement of Works, Provision of
Goods and Services, (Regulamento de Contratacao de Empreitada de Obras
Publicas, Fornecimento de Bens e Prestacao de Servicos ao Estado) published in
the Recipient's Official Gazette (Boletim da Republica) on May 24, 2010
19. 
"Road Fund" means the Borrower's entity responsible for road sector finance and
monitoring established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree number 22/2003, dated
-19-
May 20, 2003, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette number 22, dated
May 28, 2003.
20. 
"RPF" means "Resettlement Policy Framework," the Borrower's framework
referred to in paragraph C of Section I of Schedule 2 to the Amended and
Restated Financing Agreement and paragraph 3 of Section I of the Schedule to
the Amended and Restated Project Agreement, disclosed in country and the
Association's InfoShop on January 9, 2014.
21. 
"SCF-PPCR Grant Agreement" means the Strategic Climate Fund (SCF)-Pilot
Program for Climate Resilience (PPCR) Grant Agreement, of even date hereof,
entered into by the World Bank, acting as an implementing entity of the SCF-
PPCR and the Borrower to assist in the financing of the Project
22. 
"SCF-PPCR Grant" means the grant in the amount of nine million two hundred
and fifty thousand Dollars (USD 9,250,000) provided by the World Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project pursuant to the SCF/PPCR Grant Agreement
23. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 15, 2012.
24. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section L.A of
Schedule 2 to the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement and Section I.A
of the Schedule to the Amended and Restated Project Agreement pursuant to
which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project
Implementing Entity.
25. 
"Training" means expenditures to be incurred for the purchase of training
materials, rental of training facilities, per diem and related travel with respect to
the Project.
