OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8391-UA
Loan Agreement
Second Urban Infrastructure Project
(Urban Infrastructure Project - 2)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
46 
, 
Z 
2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8391-UA
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
It, 
2014, between UKRAINE ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECO 
RUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith ("CTF Loan Agreement"), the Bank,
acting as the implementing agency of the Clean Technology Fund ("CTF") has agreed to make a
loan ("CTF Loan") to the Borrower in the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000) to assist
in financing Part 1 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the CTF Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall: (a) through Minregion, cause Part 1 of the Project to be carried out by the
Utility Companies ("Project Implementing Entities"); and (b) carry out Parts 2 and 3 of
-2-
the Project through Minregion, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and each Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a Project
Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of such Project Implementing
Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
At least eight (8) Project Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Bank
and eight (8) Utility Companies.
(b) 
At least five (5) Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and five (5) Utility Companies.
(c) 
The Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been
finalized and adopted by Minregion, by each Utility Company that has executed a
Project Agreement under paragraph (a) above, and by each Utility Company that
has executed a Subsidiary Agreement under paragraph (b) above.
(d) 
The CTF Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness and to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been
satisfied or waived by the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: (a) the Project Agreements
referred to in Section 5.01(a) have been duly authorized or approved by the respective
Utility Companies and are legally binding upon such Utility Companies in accordance
with its terms; and (b) the Subsidiary Agreements referred to in Section 5.01(b) have
been duly authorized or approved by the Borrower and the respective Utility Companies
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and such Utility Companies in accordance
with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-3-
5.04. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties hereto
in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions. 
Such
amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
Facsimile:
(380-44) 425-90-26
(380-44) 277-54-82
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Kiev, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written.
UKRAINE
By
Authorized Rep sentative
Name: Lnwlo'/ 
/l=4d
Title: 7)k0tDY i 
MI'iel 
Of
2eeponal -evefomerd ,
r,tnqaafSut-;1'e,s o/f4~t -Ch;4{
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
Of Ja4
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
,,uthorized Representative
Name: 
(7//2aO 
FaIZ-
Title: Cot6//,( pitef91/"
Palarus, 
dlQictor 
ami
5r 
ia-
-5 -
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and efficiency of water, wastewater,
and solid waste services in selected cities in Ukraine.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Urban Infrastructure Improvement
Implementation of selected investment in the rehabilitation and upgrading of priority
infrastructure specified in a Utility Company's Investment Program, with specific focus on water
supply, wastewater, and solid waste sectors and including:
(a) 
rehabilitation and upgrading of water supply systems; rehabilitation and
upgrading of existing wastewater and sludge treatment facilities; provision of goods for water
treatment systems, pumping stations, operations and maintenance and technical assistance for
detailed designs and tender documents and construction supervision; and
(b) 
rehabilitation, construction and management of solid waste landfills.
Part 2: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen, at the sub-national level, the
capacity and efficiency of municipalities/cities and utility entities to operate and manage their
water supply, wastewater and solid waste infrastructure and systems, including (i) development of
policies and inter-sectoral instruments for water and wastewater management; (ii) development of
policies for solid waste management to improve municipal service delivery and strengthen
governance; and (iii) enhancement of social accountability mechanisms in the sectors with a view
to improving performance.
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen, at the national level, policy
dialogue and strategy development for improved service delivery and regulation in the water
supply, wastewater, and solid waste sectors, including in the areas of tariffs, alternative financing
options, sector governance, public awareness, benchmarking, and accountability mechanisms.
Part 3: Project Management
Provision of support to the CPMU in its management and implementation of the Project
activities, including financing of Incremental Operating Costs, cost of Project financial and
technical audits and feasibility studies of potential urban infrastructure improvement investments.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, through Minregion, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the Operations Manual and shall ensure that the Operations
Manual is not amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed and that no provision of the
Operations Manual is waived, without prior approval of the Bank; and
(b) 
maintain the CPMU within Minregion, throughout the duration of the Project, in
a form and with functions, staffing (under terms of reference, qualifications and scope of
responsibilities), and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank which CPMU is
responsible for overall Project coordination and reporting.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of each Utility Company's Respective Part of the Project in
accordance with its Utility Company's Investment Program that has been approved by the
Bank, the Borrower, through MoF, shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan equal to
an amount approved by the Bank, available to said Utility Company under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower (represented by MoF, Minregion and the National
Commission of the State Public Utilities Regulation), the municipal/regional council
concerned and the Utility Company, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank
("Subsidiary Agreement"), which shall include:
(a) 
The principal amount of the Loan made available under the Subsidiary
Agreement ("Subsidiary Loan") shall be:
(i) 
in an amount approved by the Bank for financing the Utility Company's
Investment Program to be supported by the Project as reflected for the
relevant Utility Company's disbursement in Category I of the table set
forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
amounts may be adjusted from time to time with the prior consent of the
Bank upon the request of the Borrower;
(ii) 
denominated and repayable in Dollars;
(iii) 
charged interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at the rate applicable to the Loan from time to time
under Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and charged a front-end fee, to be
deducted from the Subsidiary Loan principal amount, at a rate that equals
the rate applied to the Loan under Section 2.03 of this Agreement, and
-7-
charged a fee of 0.01 percent on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan
principal amount; and
(iv) 
repayable over a period not exceeding the maturity of the Loan, inclusive
of a grace period not exceeding 5 years.
(b) 
The Utility Company shall be responsible for implementing its Utility
Company's Investment Program that has been approved by the Bank and in accordance
with the Operations Manual, ESMF, RPF, and shall maintain its RPMU throughout the
duration of the Project for this purpose, in a form and with functions, staffing (under
terms of reference, qualifications and scope of responsibilities), and adequate resources,
all satisfactory to the Bank and as further set forth in the Operations Manual. The Utility
Company shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the
Operations Manual without the prior approval of the Bank.
(c) 
The Utility Company shall comply with the financial covenants and all other
provisions set forth in its respective Project Agreement and its respective Subsidiary
Agreement.
(d) 
The Utility Company shall obtain any necessary legal or administrative
permissions, licenses, permits, usage rights, authorizations and any other consents as may
be required for the implementation and maintenance of the Utility Company's Investment
Program under the Borrower's legal framework.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take measures to
ensure that each Utility Company, during Project implementation, shall be able to
maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 2015 a
ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 150% and for
purposes of this paragraph, the terms "total operating expenses", "total operating
revenues" and other terms used in this paragraph shall have the meanings set forth in the
Utility Company's Project Agreement.
(b) 
If the Borrower has failed to comply with paragraph (a) above and/or a Utility
Company has failed to maintain the ratio of total operating expenses to total operating
revenues as set out in paragraph (a) above, the Bank may, without limitation to Article
VII of the General Conditions and in its sole discretion, reallocate the amounts of the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance allocated to such non-performing Utility Company to
another Utility Company.
-8-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall, and shall cause each Utility Company to, prior
to the commencement of any civil works under the Project, (a) prepare an EMP in
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the ESMF; (b) thereafter,
provide said EMP to the Bank for review; and (c) implement such EMP as shall have
been accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory, as well as cause the Kharkiv Solid
Waste EMP to be implemented.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall carry out and cause the following to be carried
out:
(a) 
all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by
persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or income or means of
livelihood, temporarily or permanently in carrying out the Project; and
(b) 
for this purpose, whenever implementation of Project activities would give rise to
Displaced Persons, prior to the commencement of civil works related to said activities:
(i) prepare, and cause to be prepared, a resettlement action plan in accordance with the
principles and procedures set forth in the RPF; (ii) thereafter, provide said plan to the
Bank for review; and (iii) implement such resettlement action plan as shall have been
accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory.
3. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall ensure that the ESMF, RPF, the Kharkiv Solid
Waste EMP, EMPs and RAPs and any provision thereof, shall not be amended,
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived or permitted to be amended, suspended,
abrogated, terminated or waived, except with the prior written consent of the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall:
(a) 
maintain, and cause each Utility Company to maintain, policies and procedures
adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of any of the ESMF, RPF, the EMPs, and
RAPs and the achievement of the objectives of said frameworks and plans; and
(b) 
include in the Project Report, which is to be prepared under Section II.A
paragraph I of this Schedule, the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities with
respect to the plans referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above.
-9-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. 
Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Bank and the Borrower's Ministry of Economic Development and Trade not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through
Minregion, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
- 10 -
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) Shopping; 
(b) Direct Contracting; and (c) National
Competitive Bidding , subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule 2.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Single-
source Selection of consulting firms; (d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of
the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1 .
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall:
(a) 
No later than December 31 of every year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on December 31, 2015, prepare and furnish to the Bank a
procurement progress report ("Procurement Progress Report"), in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) a description
of issues arising during the full procurement cycle under the Project, from design
through planning, bidding, contract implementation and completion; (ii) a list of
proposed measures and actions to be taken to resolve the issues identified under
sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) a proposed timeline for the implementation of
the said measures and actions.
(b) 
No later than January 31 of every year during the implementation of the Project,
beginning on January 31, 2016, exchange views with the Bank on the results of
the Procurement Progress Report completed for the Borrower's previous calendar
- 11 -
year and thereafter implement such recommended measures as agreed with the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
81.50%
services, 
and 
consultants'
services 
for Part 1 of the
Project to be implemented by:
(a) Donetsk UC 
30,473,000
(b) Kharkiv UC 
61,598,000
(c) Kharkiv Waste 
35,755,000
Management UC
(d) Kyiv UC 
9,264,000
(e) Kirovohrad UC 
27,952,000
(f) Ternopil UC 
29,815,000
(g) Zhytomyr UC 
24,378,000
(2) Goods, works, non-consulting 
100%
services, and consultants'
services for Part 1 of the
Project to be implemented by:
(a) Kramatorsk UC 
5,236,000
(b) Kolomiya UC 
0
(c) Ivano-Frankivsk UC 
0
(d) Cherkasy UC 
12,309,000
- 12 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(3) Goods, works, non-consulting 
15,000,000 
100%
services, 
and 
consultants'
services for Parts 2 and 3 of
the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
750,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Rate Collar premium 
to Section 2.07(c) of
this Agreement
(6) Unallocated 
47,470,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000.000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
under Categories (1) and (2) for each withdrawal to a Utility Company, unless:
(i) 
the Subsidiary Agreement related to the relevant Utility Company has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower (represented by MoF, Minregion, and
the National Commission of the State Public Utilities Regulation), the
municipal/regional council concerned and the relevant Utility Company, and a
legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, has been provided by counsel acceptable
to the Bank, confirming that such Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or approved by the aforementioned parties to the Subsidiary
Agreement and is legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its terms;
(ii) 
the Project Agreement related to the relevant Utility Company has been
executed on behalf executed on behalf of the Bank and said Utility Company and
a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, has been provided by counsel acceptable
to the Bank, confirming that such Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
approved by such Utility Company and is legally binding upon such Utility
Company in accordance with its terms; and
- 13 -
(iii) 
the relevant Utility Company has finalized and adopted the Operations
Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2020.
C. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
With respect to Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through Minregion, shall: (a) within
eighteen (18) months from the Effective Date furnish to the Bank for comments a draft
"Utilities Performance Improvement" (UPI) study, prepared in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, including analysis of the applicable legal and regulatory
framework and the financial and operational constraints in the sector per utility and
proposed solutions; and (b) thereafter, finalize and implement recommendations of said
study, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
- 14 -
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding
The procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the Open
Tender Procedure set forth in the Law on Public Procurement No. 197-VII dated April 10, 2014,
provided, however, that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the "Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting
Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
(January 2011) (the "Procurement Guidelines") and the following additional provisions:
(i) 
Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Bank, shall be used.
(ii) 
The eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines.
(iii) 
After the public opening of the bids, information relating to the examination,
clarification, and evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards shall
not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this process
until the publication of the contract award notice.
(iv) 
Qualification 
criteria shall 
be clearly 
specified in the bidding documents.
Qualification shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis, and merit points shall not be
used. 
Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the bidder's or prospective
bidder's capability and resources to effectively perform the contract, taking into
account objective and measurable factors, including: (i) relevant general and specific
experience, and satisfactory past performance and successful completion of similar
contracts over a given period; (ii) financial position; and where relevant (iii)
capability of construction and/or manufacturing facilities. The availability of
equipment, material and technical basis, including owning production facilities
and/or service centers within the territory of Ukraine shall not be required as part of
qualification requirements.
(v) 
Government-owned enterprises are eligible to bid only if they (i) are legally and
financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are not
dependent agencies of Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
(vi) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the evaluation criteria
specified in the bidding documents. 
Evaluation criteria other than price shall be
quantified in monetary terms. Merit points shall not be used, and no minimum point
or percentage value shall be assigned to the significance of price, in bid evaluation.
- 15-
(vii) 
If required, bid security amount shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated
cost of the contract.
(viii) 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors/suppliers without a suitable
advance payment security.
(ix) 
No domestic preference shall be granted in bid evaluation on the basis of bidder
nationality, origin of goods or services, and/or preferential programs. Contracts shall
be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been determined: (i) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents, and (ii) to offer the lowest-
evaluated cost. A bidder shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis
of minor, non-substantial deviations.
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's estimate or
budget allocation ceiling without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(xi) 
All bids (including in the case when less than two bids are received) shall not be
rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall not be
solicited without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(xii) 
Restrictions to the contract amendments, as contemplated under Article 40 of the PPL
will not apply. With respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, the
Borrower shall obtain the Bank's no objection before agreeing to: (a) a material
extension of the stipulated time for performance of a contract; (b) any substantial
modification of the scope of services or other significant changes to the terms and
conditions of the contract; (c) any variation order or amendment which, singly or
combined with all variation orders or amendments previously issued, increases the
original contract amount by more than 15 percent; or (d) the proposed termination of
the contract. A copy of all contract amendments shall be provided to the Bank.
(xiii) 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the Bank shall include
provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals, found to have
engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and contract
financed out of the proceeds of the Bank financing shall provide that bidders,
suppliers, contractors and their subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service
providers, or suppliers to permit the Bank to inspect all accounts, records and other
documents relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract and to have
said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended
to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's inspection and audit rights provided
for in the Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the
Guidelines.
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: 
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2019
to and including June 15, 2031 
3.85%
On December 15, 2031 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
- 17-
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 18 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection 
and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
4. 
"CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit within Minregion, established
pursuant to Decree 343-1 
dated November 
14, 2008, and Decree 483 dated
March 10, 2013, and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
6. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means a site-specific environmental
management plan, prepared in accordance with the ESMF and the provisions of
Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank, and giving
details the specific actions, measures and policies designed to facilitate the achievement
of the objective of the ESMF, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of an Utility Company's
Investment Program to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels
acceptable to the Bank, including the budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding,
along with the institutional and procedural measures needed to implement such actions,
measures and policies. 
"Environmental Management Plans" or "EMPs" means,
collectively, all such EMPs and the Kharkiv Solid Waste EMP.
7. 
"ESMF" means the Environment and Social Management Framework dated December
2013, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Borrower's website on January 14,
2014, and the Bank's Infoshop on March 20, 2014, which framework sets out, inter alia
policies and procedures for: the preliminary screening (including 
impact on physical
cultural 
resources) of proposed Project activities; preparation of environmental
assessment and environment management plans therefor; consultation and disclosure and
monitoring and reporting during the implementation of the Project, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
- 19-
8. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the 
"International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
9. 
"Kharkiv Solid Waste EMP" means the Environmental and Social Management Plan for
Solid Waste Management Sub-project in Kharkiv dated December 2013, satisfactory to
the Bank, and disclosed on the Minregion website on January 20, 2014, and the Bank's
Infoshop on March 20, 2014, which sets forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of Kharkiv Waste
Management UC, the Project Implementing Entity's Utility Company's Investment
Program to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the
Bank, including the budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, along with the
institutional and procedural measures needed to implement such actions, measures and
policies.
10. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the CPMU's reasonable and necessary incremental
expenditures related to the management and implementation of the Project, all based on
periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank, including on account of vehicle rental;
miscellaneous 
utilities; stationary and office supplies and equipment; operation,
maintenance and spare parts of equipment; consumables; transportation; local travel;
communication and advertisement costs; salaries of CPMU staff, but excluding salaries
or honoraria of officials and employees of the Borrower's civil services.
11. 
"Ministry of Finance" and "MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
includes any successor thereto.
12. 
"Minregion" means the Borrower's Ministry of Regional Development, Building and
Housing and includes any successor thereto.
13. 
"Operations Manual" means the operational manual adopted by Minregion and each
Utility Company, setting forth the operational requirements, criteria, institutional
arrangements and operational procedures for the implementation of the Project,
including, inter alia, procurement, financial management, disbursement, accounting,
audit, environmental and social safeguards requirements, monitoring and evaluation
arrangements, as amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
14. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
15. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated April
24, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means a Utility Company.
- 20 -
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means with respect to each Project
Implementing Entity/Utility Company, the Charter set forth in column 4 of the same row
as the Utility Company concerned in the table in Attachment I to the Appendix.
18. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and RAP" mean a site-specific resettlement action plan
relating to land acquisition and/or resettlement or economic displacement of Displaced
Persons, as the case may be, prepared in accordance with the ESMF and the provisions of
Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank; and
"Resettlement Action Plans" and "RAPs" mean, collectively, all such RAPs.
19. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means with respect to each Utility Company, the Utility
Company's Investment Program that has been proposed by the Borrower for financing
under Part I of the Project using the proceeds of the Loan and approved by the Bank, all
in accordance with the procedures set out in the Operations Manual.
20. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework dated December 2013, satisfactory to
the Bank, and disclosed in the Borrower's website on January 14, 2014, and the Bank's
Infoshop on March 20, 2014, which sets out the policies and procedures for land
acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons,
preparation of resettlement action plans therefor, consultation, disclosure, grievance
redress, and monitoring and reporting during Project implementation, as said framework
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
21. 
"RPMU" means the project implementation unit established within each Utility Company
and referred to in Section I.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means each agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2
to this Agreement and made between the Borrower (represented by MoF, Minregion, and
the National Commission of the State Public Utilities Regulation), the municipal/regional
council concerned and the Utility Company, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make
part of the proceeds of the Loan available to each Utility Company.
23. 
"Training" means Project-related training, and includes Project related study tours,
training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, not included under
service providers' contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment
rental, reasonable and necessary local and international travel by participants in training
activities, reasonable lodging and accommodation, subsistence and local and international
per diem of trainees and trainers, registration, tuition and facilitators' fees, translation and
interpretation, and other training related miscellaneous costs, all based on budgets
acceptable to the Bank.
24. 
"Utility Company" means, individually, each of the utility companies set forth in column
3 of the table in Attachment I to this Appendix, which utility company:
(a) 
is located in the municipality/city set forth in column 1 of the same row of said
table as the Utility Company concerned;
-21 -
(b) 
is established and operating pursuant to its Charter and Identification Number
(also defined above as Project Implementing Entity's Legislation) as set forth in
column 4 of the same row of said table as the Utility Company concerned; and
(c) 
may be referred to in this Agreement by its acronym, which is set forth in column
2 of the same row of said table as the Utility Company concerned, and
"Utility Companies" means, collectively, all such companies.
25. 
"Utility Company's Investment Program" means a Utility Company's program for water
supply, wastewater and/or solid waste investments proposed by a Utility Company, in
accordance with procedures established by Minregion, to the Bank for approval for
inclusion under Part I of the Project and to be financed by the proceeds of the Loan.
- 22 -
Attachment 1 to Appendix
Column I 
Column 2 
Column 3 
Column 4
Utility Company is established and operating
Name of 
Acronym of 
pursuant to its Charter and Identification
Municipality/ 
Utility Company 
Full Name of Utilit) Company 
Number (also defined as Project Implementing
City 
Entity's Legislation) as follows:
1. Donetsk 
Donetsk UC 
Ltilit) CompanN "Donet.kNodokanal" 
Charterapproed bN Donetsk NaNor
Decree No.711 dated August 05, 2013 with
Identification No. 03361477.
2. Kharkiv 
Kharkiv UC 
Utility Company "Kharkivvodokanal" 
Charter approved by Decision of Kharkiv City
Council No. 66 dated January 25, 2012 with
Identification No. 0336171.
Kharkiv Waste 
Utility Company "Kharkiv Municipal 
Charter approved by Deputy Director of
Management UC 
company for Waste Management" 
Economics and Municipal Property Department,
Head of Municipal Property and Privatization
Department of Kharkiv City Council and
registered on April 3, 2009, with Identification
No. 30990215.
3. Kramatorsk 
Kramatorsk UC 
Utility Production Company "Kramatorskyi 
Charter approved by Order of Head of Housing
Vodokanal" 
and Municipal Economy Department of
Kramatorsk City Council No. 110 dated August
registered29, 
2013 with Identification No. 05524251.
4. Kirovohrad 
Kirovohrad UC 
Regional Utility Production Company 
Charter approved by Decree of Head of
"Dnipro-Kirovohrad" 
Kirovohrad Oblast Council No. 50-rp dated
February 24, 2012 with Identification
No. 03346822.
5. Kolomiya 
Kolomiya UC 
Utility Company "Kolomyiavodokanal" 
Charter approved by Decision of Kolomyia City
Council No.372-6 dated May 31, 2011 with
Identification No. 32148690.
column I 
Column 2 
Column 3 
Column 4
Utility Company is established and operating
Name of 
Acronym of 
pursuant to its Charter and Identification
Municipality/ 
Utility Company 
Full Name of Utility Company 
Number (also defined as Project Implementing
City 
Entity's Legislation) as follows:
6. Kyiv 
Kyiv UC 
Public Joint Stock Company "JSC 
Articles of Association approved by Protocol of
"Kyivvodokanal" 
General Shareholders' Meeting No. 1/11 dated
April 28, 2011 with Identification No. 03327664.
7. Ternopil 
Ternopil UC 
Utility Company "Temopilvodokanal" 
Charter approved by Decision of Ternopil City
Council No. 5/26/19 dated April 30, 2009 with
Identification No. 03353845.
8. Zhytomyr 
Zhytomyr UC 
Utility Company "Zhytomyrvodokanal" 
Charter approved by Decision of Zhytomir City
Council No. 441 dated August 30, 2012 with
Identification No. 03344065.
9. Ivano- 
Ivano-Frankivsk 
Utility Company "Ivano- 
Charter approved by Decision of Ivano-Frankivsk
Frankivsk 
UC 
Frankivskvodoecotekhprom" 
City Council No. 165 of April 15, 2003 with
Identification No. 32360815.
10. Cherkasy 
Cherkasy UC 
Communal Enterprise "Cherkasyvodokanal" 
Charter approved by Decision of Cherkasy City
Council No. 2-31 dated December 16, 2010 with
Identification No. 03357168.
24
