OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8397-MA
Loan Agreement
(Rural Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DE L'EAU POTABLE
Dated 
MOJ 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8397-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
A, 
2014, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and OFFICE NATIONAL DE
L'ELECTRICITE ET DE L'EAU POTABLE ("Borrower"). The Bank and the Borrower hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement: (a) the amount of thirty one million seven hundred twenty thousand
Dollars (USD31,720,000); 
and 
(b) 
the amount of ninety two million Euro,
(EUR92,000,000), as such amounts may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted
by the Borrower.
-3-
(b) 
A RAP, satisfactory to the Bank, for the activities to be carried out by the
Borrower in Bedouza, Province of Safi, has been published by the Borrower on
its website and submitted by the Borrower to the Bank for publication at the
Infoshop.
(c) 
A RAP, satisfactory to the Bank, for the activities to be carried out by the
Borrower in Skhour Rehamna, Province of Rehamna, has been published by the
Borrower on its website and submitted by the Borrower to the Bank for
publication at the Infoshop.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty days (120) days after the date
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Director General.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Office National de l'Electricitd et de I'Eau Potable
Avenue Mohamed Belhassan El Ouazzani
10220 Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Facsimile:
212-537-75-91-06
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
M&c, cc 
as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
_&~v 
no 
i 
^Gc .16
Title: 
___ ______r
OFFICE NATIONAL 
DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DE
L'EAU POTABLE
By 
r
zed Representative
Name: 
A~L 1;sci 
''c )ci
Title: 
&-ftr ?t43 Qtr-Le'
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to provide access to safe and reliable drinking water
supply for rural communities in targeted under-served areas in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Extension of Access to Water Supply through Standpipes in Selected Provinces within the
Project Area
Carrying out of works, and acquisition of goods, to deliver water supply to selected
villages ("douars") through:
(a) 
the construction of lateral mains from regional trunk lines, elevated or grounded storage
tanks, pumping stations, and public standpipe delivery systems; and
(b) 
the expansion of the capacity of the Tiznit water treatment plant and associated
infrastructure.
Part II: Supporting the Shift towards Water Service Delivery through House Connections in the
Project Area
(a) 
Supporting the Pre-financing Mechanism to pre-finance a share of the cost of households'
individual water connections.
(b) 
Carrying out of works, and acquisition of goods, to increase the capacity of the regional
water access network in prevision for house connection service delivery.
Part III: Project Implementation Support and Capacity Building
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services to strengthen the Borrower's capacity in the
following areas: (i) Project management and monitoring and evaluation; (ii) participatory
approaches to water service provision; and (iii) identification of proper wastewater
management solutions for the villages, and raising awareness on sanitation.
(b) 
Carrying out of studies and strengthening the capacity of the Borrower in the following
areas: (i) rural water supply; (ii) management of the overall universal water access
program; (iii) 
preparation of sustainable management models for extension and
management of house connection service provision; (iv) performance of rural water
supply standpipe service and household connection service operations; and (v) remote-
management pilots in rural water supply and opportunities and conditions for scaling-up
successful approaches.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1I 
The Borrower shall implement the Project through its Central Department of Universal
Access to Potable Water and its provincial and regional directorates in the Project Area,
with the assistance of its Financial Department. Said Central Department shall be
responsible for the overall management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of
Project activities; and said provincial and regional offices shall be responsible, within the
areas under their jurisdiction and with the support of the Central Department, for the
technical, 
social 
and environmental 
studies, community 
mobilization activities,
community campaigns, procurement, construction and supervision of activities contracted
out to private sector entities. To this end, the Borrower shall maintain the Central
Department of Universal Access to Potable Water and its provincial and regional offices
in the Project Area, and its Financial Department under the management of qualified
managers, staffed with competent personnel, and provided with adequate resources.
2. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to implement the Project in accordance
with the Project Implementation Manual. The Borrower shall not amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual without
the prior approval of the Bank.
B. 
Agreements with Rural Municipalities for Activities to be Carried out under Parts I
(a) and 11 (a) of the Project
1 .
Prior to executing any contract to supply potable water to a rural community in the
Project Area, the Borrower shall ensure that a written agreement has been executed with
the relevant Rural Municipality which sets forth the level of service required; the
financial contribution of the Rural Municipality to the construction costs of activities to
be carried out, and, for communities requiring individual household connection service,
the need for household sanitation systems to be developed in accordance with agreed
standards as defined in the Project Implementation Manual; the responsibilities for
operation and maintenance of the infrastructure and service delivery; the fees to be
charged to water users and the commitment from the relevant Rural Municipality to make
the required land available to the Borrower; and the conditions for the acquisition of such
land, as necessary, all as further detailed in the Project Implementation Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the agreements with the Rural Municipalities
referred to in paragraph I above in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of said agreements or any of their provisions if
such assignment, amendment, abrogation or waiver shall affect the implementation of the
Project or the achievement of its objective.
-7-
C. 
Conditions for Water Users to benefit from a Credit Under Part 11 (a) of the Project
Prior to pre-financing, through a credit under the Pre-financing Mechanism, the costs of
the installation of an individual household connection to be borne by a water user, the Borrower
shall ensure that the following conditions shall be met:
1. 
the Borrower shall have received from the water user satisfactory evidence establishing
that a suitable collective or individual household sanitation system shall have been
established by the water user in compliance with the requirements of the Project
Implementation Manual; and
2. 
the Borrower shall have entered into an agreement with the water user setting forth, inter
alia, the terms and conditions of the credit to be granted to such water user under the Pre-
financing Mechanism.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the
EIA, the ESMP, the RPF and the RAPs; and (ii) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive any provision of the EIA, of the ESMP, of the RPF or of any of the RAPs, without
the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
Wherever required under the RPF, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of any activity,
and prior to implementation thereof, have a Resettlement Action Plan:
(a) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, submitted to the Bank for review and
approval; and
(c) 
thereafter, adopted and locally disclosed.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate information on the implementation of the EIA,
the ESMP, the RPF and the RAPs is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to
in Paragraph A.1, Section II of this Schedule 2, including information on:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such frameworks and plans;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such frameworks and plans; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
-8-
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Mid-term Review
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank,
about forty-two (42) months after the Effective Date, a report on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during
the period following such date; and
(b) 
review with the Bank, about forty-four (44) months after the Effective Date, or
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph
(a) of this paragraph A.2. of Section II, and, thereafter, take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said
report and the Bank's views on the matter.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. In addition, the Borrower shall
have its general financial statements (the "General Financial Statements") prepared in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, and
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of the Financial Statements
and the General Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements and the audited General Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of such period.
-9-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions:
(i) 
the bidding documents include explicitly the bid evaluation method,
award criteria and bidder qualification criteria;
(ii) 
technical, administrative and financial envelopes are opened immediately
after the bid opening session has started and prices are read aloud;
(iii) 
the bids are evaluated on the basis of the price and any other criteria
expressed either in pass/fail terms or in monetary terms and disclosed in
the bidding document;
(iv) 
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder who has submitted the
least-cost evaluated and substantially responsive bid as stipulated in the
bidding document; and
(v) 
standard bidding documents and bid evaluation reports found acceptable
by the Bank are used;
- 10 -
(b) 
Shopping; and
(c) 
Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection;
(d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms; (f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures
for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
- 11 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
(expressed in EUR) 
financed
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) (a) Goods, works 
23,000,000 
66,720,000 
80%
and 
non-
consulting
services 
under
Part I (a) of the
Project; and
(b) Goods, works 
1,100,000 
3,200,000
and 
non-
consulting
services 
under
Part 11 (b) of the
Project
(2) Goods, 
works, 
2,460,000 
7,130,000 
100%
non-consulting
services, 
and
consultants'
services 
under
Part I (b) of the
Project
(3) Consultants' 
2,210,000 
6,400,000 
100%
services 
under
Part III of the
Project
(4) Support 
to the 
1,380,000 
4,000,000 
100%
Pre-financing
Mechanism
under Part 11 (a)
of the Project
(5) Front-end Fee 
79,300 
230,000 
Amount 
payable
pursuant to 
Section
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(6) Interest Rate Cap 
Amount due pursuant
or Interest Rate 
to Section 2.07(c) of
Collar premium 
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated 
1,490,700 
4,320,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
31,720,000 
92,000,000
- 12 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,785,000 equivalent for the amount
of the Loan expressed in Dollars and E8,077,000 equivalent for the amount of the
Loan expressed in Euro, may be made for payments made prior to this date but
on or after May 1, 2013, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (3) and
(4); or
(b) 
under Category (2), unless a revised EIA and a revised ESMP, satisfactory to the
Bank, covering the activities to be carried out by the Borrower under Part 1 (b) of
the Project, shall have been published by the Borrower on its website and
submitted by the Borrower to the Bank for publication at the Infoshop.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2021.
Section V. 
Other Undertaking: Debt: Equity Ratio
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take, in consultation
with the Guarantor, all actions necessary to ensure that its Cumulative Debt to
equity shall be lower than 4.5 by closing of each fiscal year.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section:
(i) 
The term "debt" means: (A) any long term indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred; or (B) any short term indebtedness of the Borrower,
namely all accounts payable and other indebtedness maturing by its
terms less than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) 
The term "Cumulative Debt" means the sum of: (A) any long term
indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred; and (B) any short term
indebtedness of the Borrower, namely all accounts payable and other
indebtedness maturing by its terms less than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
(iii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
(iv) 
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital,
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
specific liabilities.
- 13 -
(v) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to
the Bank.
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15and September 15
Beginning 
September 
15, 
2.33%
2021
through March 15, 2042
On September 15, 2042 
2.14%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 15 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 16-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Central Directorate for Universal Access to Potable Water" means Direction de la
Gjnralisation de l'Eau Potable, a central direction of the Borrower, and any successor
thereto.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
5. 
"Direction Gndrale des Collectivitis Locales" or "DGCL" means the department within
the Ministry of Interior of the Guarantor with the responsibility for, inter alia, overseeing
local governments.
6. 
"EIA" means the Environment Impact Assessment prepared and adopted by the
Borrower, disclosed on January 23, 2014, and satisfactory to the Bank, evaluating the
environmental impact of Parts I (a) and II of the Project, and setting forth, through the
ESMP, the mitigating, compensating and monitoring measures for Parts I (a) and II of the
Project, as such Assessment may be amended from time to time with the prior approval
of the Bank in particular to cover the activities to be carried out under Part I (a) of the
Project.
7. 
"ESMP" means the Environment and Social Management Plan embedded in the EIA,
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, disclosed on January 23, 2014, and satisfactory to
the Bank, which set forth environmental and other mitigation measures, staffing and
budget for implementing such measures, monitoring and supervision of the execution of
such measures, and capacity building activities, with the objective to offset, mitigate,
reduce and/or compensate for the negative impacts and to enhance the positive impacts of
Parts I (a) and II of the Project, as such Plan may be amended from time to time with the
prior approval of the Bank in particular to cover the activities to be carried out under Part
1 (a) of the Project.
8. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
9. 
"Pre-financing Mechanism" means a line of credit operated by the Borrower for the pre-
financing of individual household connections, whereby the Borrower provides a credit
using Loan proceeds, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to a water user
- 17 -
seeking an individual household connection to a Rural Municipality water distribution
system, said credit constituting a portion of said user's contribution to the construction
cost of said system, and to be repaid in installments over time by the water user through
its water bills according to a pre agreed repayment schedule.
10. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
I1. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March
27, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
12. 
"Project Area" means the Regions 
of Chaouia-Ouardigha, Doukkala-Abda, F&s-
Boulemane, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni 
Hssen, Grand Casablanca, Marrakech-Tensift-Al
Haouz, 
Meknbs-Tafilalet, 
Oriental, 
Rabat-Sald-Zemmour-Zadr, 
Souss-Massa-Drda,
Tadla-Azilal, Tanger-Tdtouan, Taza-Al Hoceima-Taounate, of the Guarantor, and the
Provinces of Tan-Tan, Tata and Guelmin of the Guarantor.
13. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual describing the implementation,
financial management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, and
reporting arrangements for the Project, as well as standards for acceptable rural sanitation
solutions, to be adopted by the Borrower, and referred to in paragraph 2, Section L.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"RAP" means a Resettlement Action Plan to be prepared by the Borrower in accordance
with the format set forth in Annex M to the RPF and satisfactory to the Bank, to be
adopted by the Borrower and to be disclosed by the Borrower in country and on the Bank
Infoshop.
15. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework prepared and adopted by the Borrower,
disclosed on January 28, 2014, and satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth the policies,
procedures, guidelines and arrangements to be applied in the event of land acquisition
and the physical or economic displacement (temporary or permanent) of persons affected
by any Project activity during the implementation of the Project, financial compensation
therefor and the monitoring and reporting on such activities, as said Framework and
procedures may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
16. 
"Rural Municipality" means a Commune Rurale which is a local government of the
Guarantor, under the jurisdiction of the DGCL, responsible, inter alia, for planning,
organizing and managing local public services, including rural water supply and
sanitation services, within their jurisdiction, either by providing such services directly, or
through the establishment of an autonomous public utility, or by delegation to a public or
private operator; and "Rural Municipalities" means more than one Rural Municipality.
