OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8399-AL
Loan Agreement
(First Public Finance Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A Y 30 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8399-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
17A Y 3, 
2014, entered into between
the REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I A of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty-seven million Euros
(E87,000,000) ("Loan"), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%).
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September I in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article 11 as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in
-2-
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried
out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
No. 3 Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Facsimile:
355 42228494
-3-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Tirana, Republic of Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
By
-' 
Authorized Representative
Name: 
C*ovi
Title: (11 AffSTIC-C 
OC -tT A1v4 C
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
IS-6A) 
5A
Title:eot 9AjVJ 
IAOAG 
-e,~-
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Pro2ram
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower's Council of Ministers, through its Decision No. 50 dated
February 2, 2014, has adopted a strategy for clearance and prevention of arrears
accumulated by the central government.
2. 
The Borrower, pursuant to Decision No. 15 dated February 2, 2014: (a) has
verified all outstanding obligations and liabilities of the central government from
September 2013 through end of December 2013; and (b) has issued a Call for
Tender for an independent external party to complete an audit of the liabilities
and claims that have not yet been validated due to disputed or incomplete
documentation.
3. 
The Borrower, pursuant to Instruction No. 8 dated March 7, 2014, issued by the
MoF, has notified all line ministries that financial commitments of these
ministries for calendar year 2014, 2015 and 2016 must be met within the
expenditure ceilings as set forth in the Budget 2014 and Medium Term Budget
2015-2017 respectively.
4. 
The Borrower, pursuant to Supplemental Instruction No. 3 dated January 17,
2014, in connection with the Budget 2014 implementation instructions and the
Medium Term Budget 2015-2017 instructions issued by the MoF; (a) has
requested all ministries to establish a prioritized list of all expenditures for
projects the costs of which are estimated to be larger than five million Euros
(E5,000,000) equivalent; and (b) has received the said list from all the ministries.
5. 
The Borrower's Council of Ministers pursuant to its Supplemental Instructions
No. 3 dated January 17, 2014, has requested all the budget units of the ministries
to obtain from the MoF a confirmation on the availability of funds within their
approved budgets before initiating the procurement for investment projects to be
financed out of public funds.
6. 
The Borrower's Parliament, pursuant to Law No. 177 of January 31, 2013, has
increased the Corporate Income Tax rate from 10% to 15%.
7. 
The Borrower, pursuant to the Prime Minister's Order No. 7 dated January 17,
2014 has: (a) established an Inter-Ministerial Pension Reform Working Group;
- 5 -
and (b) finalized a policy paper dated April 11, 2014, which outlines the strategic
direction for the pension reform.
8. 
The Borrower, through Council of Minister Decision No. 141 dated March 12,
2014, has adopted a strategy for the clearance of public sector arrears in the
energy sector.
9. 
The Borrower through Council of Minister Decision No.198 dated April 3, 2014,
has partially offset the public sector arrears in the energy sector.
10. 
The Borrower has, through the Albania Energy Regulator issued Resolution No.
146 dated December 24, 2013, instructed CEZ Distribution to implement a flat
rate for all non-metered household customers and CEZ has commenced
implementation of said instructions.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in single withdrawal tranche from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Euros)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
86,782,500
(2) Front-end Fee 
217,500
TOTAL AMOUNT 
87.000000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
-6-
I. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures' The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at
any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 30, 2015.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March I and September 1
Beginning September 1, 2021 
3.13 %
through September 1 2036
On March 1, 2037 
2.97%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-8-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Albania Energy Regulator" means a public entity established and operating
pursuant to Law No. 9072 dated May 22, 2003.
2. 
"Call for Tender" means a procurement process where suppliers are invited to bid
to supply goods or non-consulting services.
3. 
"Council of Ministers" means the Borrower's executive arm of government
chaired by the Prime Minister.
4. 
"Corporate Income Tax" means a tax imposed by the Borrower on the profits of
companies.
5. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub- 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
not containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive 
and 
associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
fuel 
elements 
(cartridges), 
non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
- 10-
Group 
Sub- 
Description of Item
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' 
or
silversmiths' wares (including set
gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
6. 
"Single Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled
"Single Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule I to
this Agreement.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 1, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
8. 
"Inter-Ministerial Pension Reform Working Group" means a working group
established by the Borrower pursuant to Order No. 7 dated January 17, 2014 for
coordinating and overseeing pension reform.
9. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or its legal successor thereto.
-ll-
10. 
"Medium Term Budget Program 2015-2017" means the Borrower's program
which defines the fiscal arrangements for extending the horizon for fiscal policy
beyond the budget year.
11. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
improve the Borrower's fiscal sustainability through: (a) strengthening public
financial management to address arrears; and (b) implementing tax, pension and
energy sector reforms to support macro-fiscal stability as set forth or referred to
in the letter dated March 31, 2014, from the Borrower to the Bank, declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article 
11 are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
- 12-
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
'"Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put
in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures
excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' 
means the program referred to in the Loan
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made."
- 13-
