OfFlAL
,0CUMEN
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF016957-IN
Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement
(Development Policy Loan to Promote Inclusive Green Growth and Sustainable
Development in Himachal Pradesh)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
Dated 
\\ 
,2014
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF016957-IN
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
t 
, 2014, entered into between
INDIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("World Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its
capacity as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund ("CTF"), for the
purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to
this Agreement). The World Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis,
inter alia, of: (a) the actions which Himachal Pradesh has already taken under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule to the Program Agreement;
and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million United
States Dollars ($100,000,000) ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of
the Standard Conditions, shall be equal to forty-five one hundredth of one
percent (0.45%) of the Loan. The Borrower shall pay the Management Fee not
later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-fourths of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article HIl
The Program
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation
through GoHP. 
To this end, and further to Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
World Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank
shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the World Bank of any
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in the Schedule to the Program Agreement.
Article IV
Remedies of the World Bank
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
-2-
period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the World Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the GoHP in carrying
out the Program, and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is any of the following: Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or under Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance,
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001
India
Facsimile:
+91-11-23095145
6.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-3-
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED at 
N 
India, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By
Autli6jile Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the
Clean Technology Fund
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section 1. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World
Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
On-lending Arrangements: To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the
borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Himachal Pradesh in
accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India.
C. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Management Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. 
The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocations 
(expressed in USD)
(1) 
Single Withdrawal 
99,550,000
Tranche
(2) 
Management Fee 
450,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the World
Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower and
GoHP; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the World
Bank into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the
World Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
-5-
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
World Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the World Bank
determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment
for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
World Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the
World Bank. Amounts refunded to the World Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is November 30, 2014.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Loan
Repayable
Date Payment Due 
expressed as a ercentage
On each April 15 and October 15:
Commencing October 15, 2024 to and 
1%
including April 15, 2034
commencing October 15, 2034 to and 
2%
including April 15, 2054
-7-
APPENDIX
Section . Definitions
1. 
"Action Plan on Climate Change" means the State Strategy & Action Plan on
Climate Change -
Himachal Pradesh 2012, prepared by the Department of
Environment, Science & Technology of Himachal Pradesh, as disclosed in the
website: http://www.himachal.gov.in/Environment.
2. 
"AGiSAC" means the Aryabhatta Geo-Informatics & Space Application Center
established under the aegis of the State Council for Science, Technology and
Environment of Himachal Pradesh.
3. 
"Block" means a district subdivision of Himachal Pradesh comprised of
Panchayats (village council) and town municipalities, as the case may be.
4. 
"Cash Transfers" means the cash transfers to be paid on annual basis to Eligible
Beneficiaries out of the respective Local Area Development Fund, and to be
funded through the contribution of 1% of the revenues generated from the
additional free power components of hydropower projects, for the lifespan of
such projects, pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Guidelines for the
Management of Local Areas Development Funds.
5. 
"Eligible Beneficiaries" means, collectively, residents in hydropower project
areas as defined in the Guidelines for the Management of Local Area
Development Funds.
6. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the IBRD or IDA
has financed or agreed to finance, or which the IBRD or IDA has
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the World Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
-8-
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the
Borrower and the World Bank;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged 
in by
-9-
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds,
without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and
appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
7. 
"GoHP" means the government of the State of Himachal Pradesh (as hereinafter
defined).
8. 
"Guidelines for the Management of Local Areas Development Fund" means the
guidelines approved by the Himachal Pradesh, pursuant to Notification No MPP-
F (10)-24/2011, dated October 5, 2011.
9. 
"Himachal Pradesh" means the Borrower's State of Himachal Pradesh.
10. 
"HP Water Policy-2005" means the Himachal Pradesh Water Policy-2005
approved by Himachal Pradesh's Department of Irrigation and Public Health.
I1. 
"HP Water Policy-2013" means the Himachal Pradesh Water Policy-2013
approved by the Chief Secretary of GoHP, pursuant to Notification No. IPH-
B(F)1-3/2013, dated November 18, 2013.
12. 
"IWMP Guidelines" means Himachal Pradesh's Operational Guidelines of
Integrated Watershed Management Program 2013.
13. 
"Local Area Development Fund" means each fund for sharing of benefits from
hydropower developments involving contribution by developers/operators to
such fund in accordance with and for the purposes and uses set out in the
Guidelines for the Management of Local Areas Development Fund.
14. 
"Micro Watershed Development Plans" means each plan for community based
integrated watershed management at the Block level.
15. 
"Negative List" means the list of industries contained in Annexure Ill of the
Himachal Pradesh's Rules Regarding Grant of incentives, Concessions and
Facilities to industrial units in Himachal Pradesh (2004), as amended up to
February 7, 2009.
16. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated July 20, 2012 from the GoHP to the World Bank
declaring the Himachal Pradesh's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the World Bank in support of the Program during
its execution.
- 10-
17. 
"Program Agreement" means the agreement between the World Bank and
Himachal Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
18. 
"Sutlej" means the easternmost tributary of the Indus river.
19. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part C of
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
20. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014, with
the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
21. 
"Sustainable Tourism Development Policy-2013" means the tourism policy
approved by Himachal Pradesh in 2013 vide letter No. TSM -F(1)-2/2013, dated
November 19, 2013 from Himachal Pradesh's Department of Tourism and Civil
Aviation.
22. 
"Tourism Policy-2005" means the tourism policy approved in 2005 by Himachal
Pradesh, Department of Tourism and Civil Aviation.
Section II. Modifications to the Standard Conditions
The modifications to the Standard Conditions are as follows:
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 (Project Execution Generally) is deleted in its
entirety, and the remaining paragraphs 
in that Section are renumbered
accordingly.
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.04 (relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is
deleted in its entirety, and purposely left in blank.
3. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 2.05 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.05. Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) are retained until two years after the Closing Date;
and"
4. 
The title and paragraph (c) of Section 2.06 are modified to read as follows:
Section 2.06. Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
-1l-
(c) 
prepare and deliver to the World Bank, not later than six
months after the Closing Date, one or more completion reports
("Completion Reports") of such scope and in such detail as the World
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the
performance by the Borrower, the Guarantor, the Program Implementing
Entity and the World Bank, of their respective obligations under the
Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
5. 
Section 2.07 (Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits) is deleted in
its entirety, and purposely left blank.
6. 
The last sentence of paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Sections 3.05 (Designated Accounts) and 3.06 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and purposely left blank.
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
" 'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
the Standard Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
" 'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
(d) 
The term 
"Project 
Agreement" 
is 
modified to read "Program
Agreement", and all reference to "Project Agreement throughout the
Standard Conditions are deemed to be references to the "Program
Agreement".
- 12-
(e) 
The term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "Program
Implementing Entity", and its definition is modified to read as follows
(and all references to the "Project Implementing Entity" throughout the
Standard Conditions are deemed to be references to the "Program
Implementing Entity"):
'Program Implementing Entity' means a legal entity (other than the
Borrower or the Guarantor) which is responsible for implementing all or
part of the Project and which is a party to the Program Agreement. If the
Bank enters into a Program Agreement with more than one such entity,
'Program Implementing Entity' refers separately to each such entity."
(f) 
The term "Project Implementing Entity's Representative" is modified to
read "Program Implementing Entity's Representative", and its definition
is modified to read as follows (and all references to the "Project
Implementing 
Entity's 
Representative" 
throughout 
the 
Standard
Conditions are deemed to be references to the "Program Implementing
Entity's Representative"):
'Program Implementing Entity's Representative' means the Program
Implementing 
Entity's 
representative 
specified 
in 
the 
Program
Agreement for purposes of Section 10.02."
(g) 
The term "Project Reports" is modified to read "Program Reports", and
its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to the
"Project Reports" throughout the Standard Conditions are deemed to be
references to the "Program Reports"):
'Program Reports' means each report on the Program to be prepared
and furnished to the World Bank for purpose of Section 2.06(b)(i)."
- 13-
