OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8411-EG
Loan Agreement
(Egypt Household Natural Gas Connection Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated s 
er \\ , 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8411-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated SeP 
%I , 2014, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement or the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million United States Dollars
(US$500,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Project
Implementing Entity.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and
the amount outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal
to the Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 82 of the Appendix of the General
Conditions that apply to this Loan) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of
handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect to the Loan.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity's Legislation, license or other legal instrument
related to its establishment or operation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement. Any suspension based on this Section shall continue until the
event (or events) which gave rise to the suspension has (or have) ceased to exist,
unless the Bank has notified the Borrower that such right to make withdrawals
has been restored.
(b) 
Any legislation, license or other legal instrument related to the establishment or
operation of any LDC implementing activities under the Project or to the
implementation of its respective activities under Part A of the Project has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of such LDC to perform any of its obligations under the
relevant EGAS Implementation Agreement. Any suspension based on this
Section shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to the
suspension has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the
Borrower that such right to make withdrawals has been restored.
4.02. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the: (a) ENI Co-financing Agreement
is May 1, 2015; and (b) AFD Co-financing Agreement is April 15, 2015; or such later
date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Borrower, provided, however, that the
failure of said ENI Co-Financing Agreement or the AFD Co-financing Agreement to
become effective by such date shall not be an event of suspension if the Borrower
establishes availability of adequate funds for the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Section 7.02 (h)(i) of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
Subject to the other provisions of this Article, this Agreement shall become effective
once the Bank has received evidence that all necessary constitutional procedures have
been taken by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.01 of the
General Conditions.
5.02. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The EGAS Implementation Agreement between the Project Implementing Entity
and Egypt Gas Company and ReGas, and the EGAS Implementation Agreement
between the Project Implementing Entity and Town Gas Company, ReGas,
Sianco and SinaiGas have each been entered into.
-4-
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity has 
prepared and adopted a Project
Implementation Manual in form agreed with the Bank and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
5.03. 
The Additional Legal Matter to be included in the Legal Opinion consists of the
following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
(b) 
The EGAS Implementation Agreement between the Project Implementing Entity
and Egypt Gas Company and ReGas, and between the Project Implementing
Entity and Town Gas Company, ReGas, Sianco and SinaiGas have been duly
authorized by the respective parties to each such agreement and are legally
binding upon the respective parties in accordance with the terms of each such
agreement.
5.04. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement, or such later date as may be established by the Bank in accordance
with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the Assistant to the
Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the Ministry of
International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as the Borrower's
Representative.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of International Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
(202) 2391-2815
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
(202) 2391-5167
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
\A)OL
Title: 
n Qre 
re\i
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
uthorz 
Psntative
Name: 
'2 
L-
Title: 
'___ 
(
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to assist the Arab Republic of Egypt to increase household
access to reliable, lower cost, grid connected natural gas supply.
The Project consists of the following parts:
PART A: Gas Network Expansion and Household Connections
I. 
Gas Transmission Connections and Pressure Reduction Stations (PRSs)
Installing high pressure transmission pipelines and PRSs to facilitate natural gas supply in about
1.5 million households in the Selected Areas.
2. 
Gas Distribution Network and Connections
Carrying out: (a) the expansion of intermediate, medium and low pressure gas distribution
networks; (b) the installation of control systems, main regulators and customer connections; and
(c) the conversion of customer appliances to facilitate connection to, and supply of, gas to
households in the Selected Areas.
3. 
Strengthening Capacityfor Connection Scale Up
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Implementing 
Entity and LDCs in 
Project
implementation, and to effectively scale up connection installations, network operations and
service delivery to consumers residing in the Selected Areas.
4. 
Establishment of Customer Service Centers
Supporting the establishment of customer service centers in the Selected Areas to ensure high
quality gas supply services to customers during and after implementation.
PART B: Financial Support for Household Connection Charges in Disadvantaged Areas
Supporting access to natural gas supply to vulnerable households in disadvantaged parts of the
Selected Areas through the provision of financial support for connection fees associated with the
supply of such natural gas.
PART C: Institutional Strengthening
I .
Development of a Financial Management and Information System (FMIS)
Enhancing financial and accounting practices at EGAS and improving the performance
monitoring capacity of EGAS and the LDCs through the: (a) preparation of the design and
technical specifications of the FMIS; and (b) procurement and installation of the FMIS or an
FMIS module as part of an enterprise resource planning system.
-7-
2. 
Technical Assistance for Gas Sector Regulatory Development
Supporting startup operations of a transitional gas sector regulator, including technical assistance
for the development of enabling gas sector regulations.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain, throughout the
implementation of the Project, the Project Management Unit (PMU) with mandate,
functions and resources, and with staff of adequate qualifications and experience with the
responsibility for overall implementation and coordination of Project activities and such
other functions as set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, all satisfactory to the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower through its relevant entities shall carry out Part C of the Project and shall
prepare an action plan for Part C.2 of the Project acceptable to the Bank, to be submitted
to the Bank no later than September 1, 2015.
B. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
I. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, among others, the following terms:
(a) repayment of principal, and payment of interest, charges and premium shall be made
in accordance with Article II of this Agreement and Article Ill of the General Conditions;
(b) payment of any other charges which may be required by the Borrower; and (c) foreign
exchange risk shall be borne by the Project Implementing Entity ("Subsidiary Loan
Agreement").
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree after consultation, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Project Implementation Manual
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual referred to in
Section 5.02 (c) of this Agreement.
-9-
2. 
Except as the Bank may agree after due consultation, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project Implementing Entity shall not amend, abrogate or waive or cause to be amended,
abrogated or waived any provision of the Project Implementation Manual without the
prior written agreement of the Bank; provided, however, that in case of any conflict
between the arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual
and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in
accordance with the Safeguard Instruments.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity:
(a) 
to implement the RPF and each pertinent RAP, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank including ensuring that all land acquisition required for the purposes of
carrying out activities under the Project, and activities related to resettlement and
rehabilitation of persons, if any, under the Project in connection with such
activities shall be completed prior to commencing the carrying out of such
activities, and that a grievance redressal mechanism shall be established and shall
be operational prior to commencing such activities; and
(b) 
to implement the ESIAF and each pertinent ESIA, ESMP and QRA in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, including ensuring that remedial measures are taken
during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce
adverse environmental impacts, if any, to acceptable levels set forth in the
ESIAF.
Section II. 
Project Monitorina Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and the
Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish such report to the Bank
and the Borrower not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-
-10-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form agreed to with the Bank and in substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements and the Financial Statements of the Project, both audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Project Implementing Entity
or such other period as the Bank may agree. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree after consultation,
procurement of all goods, works, and non-consulting services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Section III of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional arrangements as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such arrangements), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD)
(1) Goods, works, and non- 
500,000,000 
84%
consulting services under
Part A of the Project
(2) Interest 
Rate 
Cap 
or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500,000,000
-11-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; and
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
- 12-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2022 
2.33%
through July 15, 2042
On January 15, 2043 
2.14%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 13 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 14-
APPENDIX
Definitions
"AFD Co-financing" means an amount of seventy million Euros (E70,000,000) to be
provided as a loan by the Agence Franqaise de Diveloppement (AFD), to assist in
financing Part A of the Project.
2. 
"AFD Co-financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and AFD providing for the co-financing of Part A of the Project by AFD.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants,"
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"EGAS" means the Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company established in 2001
pursuant to the Public Business Sector Law No. 203 of 1991, laws of the Borrower, or
any successor thereto.
6. 
"EGAS Implementation Agreement" means, individually, the agreement to be entered
into as set forth in Section 5.02 (b) of this Agreement between:
(a) 
EGAS and Egypt Gas Company and ReGas for carrying out activities under Part
A of the Project in Selected Areas in the following governorates: Qalubia,
Menufia, Daqahlia, Qena, Gharbia, and Aswan, over which Egypt Gas Company
has been granted concession to carry out such activities, and in Selected Areas in
Sohag over which ReGas has been granted concession to carry out such activities
and in respect of which ReGas has authorized Egypt Gas Company to carry out
said activities on its behalf;
(b) 
EGAS and Town Gas Company, ReGas, Sianco and SinaiGas for carrying out
activities under Part A of the Project in Selected Areas in the following
governorates: Alexandria, Giza, and Ismailia, over which Town Gas Company
has been granted concession to carry out such activities, in Selected Areas in
Marsa Matrouh over which ReGas has been granted concession to carry out such
activities and in respect of which ReGas has authorized Town Gas Company to
carry out said activities on its behalf, and in Selected Areas in Alexandria and
Ismailia, over which Sianco and SinaiGas have, respectively, also been granted
concession to carry out such activities, and in respect of which Sianco and
SinaiGas have each authorized Town Gas Company to carry out said activities on
their behalf; and
(c) 
any other LDC for carrying out activities under Part A of the Project in Selected
Areas in any other governorates selected during Project implementation for
carrying out said activities over which it has been granted concession to carry out
-15 -
such activities, or in respect of which it has been authorized by another LDC that
has been granted concession to carry out such activities; and collectively called
"EGAS Implementation Agreements."
7. 
"Egypt Gas Company" means the company established in 1983 pursuant to the
Investment Law No. 43 of 1974 and which has been granted concession by EGAS to
carry out, among others, design, construction, management, operation and maintenance
of natural gas activities related to domestic, commercial and industrial consumers in
specified governorates in the Borrower's territory, including Qalubia, Menufia, Daqahlia,
Qena, Gharbia, and Aswan governorates, and any successor thereto.
8. 
"ENI" means the European Neighborhood Instrument.
9. 
"ENI Co-financing" means an amount of fifty-eight million Euros (E58,000,000) to be
provided as a grant by the European Neighborhood Instrument (ENI) to assist in
financing Parts B and C of the Project.
10. 
"ENI Co-financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ENI providing for the co-financing of Parts B and C of the Project by ENI.
1. 
"ESIA" means for a given activity under Part A of the Project, the site-specific
environmental and social impact assessment for said activity to be carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the ESIAF.
12. 
"ESIAF" means the Borrower's environmental and social impact assessment framework,
including the environmental and social management and monitoring framework and all
schedules and annexes thereto, prepared and disclosed in the Borrower's territory on
March 23, 2014 and at the Bank's Infoshop on March 24, 2014, detailing, inter alia: (a)
the criteria and mechanisms for carrying out ESIA and QRA; (b) the measures to be
taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or offset
adverse environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and
(c) the actions needed to implement these measures, including monitoring and
institutional strengthening.
13. 
"ESMP" means a site-specific environmental and social management plan for the Project
to be prepared and implemented in accordance with the provisions of the ESIAF and the
applicable ESIA.
14. 
"Financial Management Manual" means the manual containing the guidelines and
procedures for the financial management of the Project to be prepared and adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity in form agreed to with the Bank and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, as part of the Project Implementation Manual.
15. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity
starting July I and ending June 30 of each year.
-16-
16. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the 
"International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans," dated March 
12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
17. 
"LDCs" means collectively, Town Gas Company, Egypt Gas Company, ReGas, Sianco,
SinaiGas, and any other local distribution company with concession over governorates
that are part of the Selected Areas; and individually called "LDC."
18. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance, and any
successor thereto.
19. 
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established June 19, 2014 within EGAS by
Administrative Order No. 242 of 2014, and referred to in Section LA of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June
9, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
22. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and EGAS, of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to such Project Agreement.
23. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual for the Project to be prepared and
adopted in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in Section 5.02 (c)
of this Agreement and Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which shall contain
detailed implementation arrangements as well as responsibilities and procedures to ensure
proper 
coordination of Project activities, 
including 
the 
following 
provisions:
(a) procedures and criteria for selecting target areas and households; (b) disbursement,
financial management, and procurement procedures; (c) institutional 
administration,
coordination, and day-to-day execution of Project activities; (d) monitoring and
evaluation, reporting, and communications; (e) detailed procedures for coordination and
collaboration among the agencies involved in the implementation of the Project,
including LDCs; and (f) such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational
arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project, as the same may be
amended from time to time with prior written agreement of the Bank.
24. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means EGAS, and any successor thereto.
25. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Public Business
Sector Law No. 203 of 1991.
-17-
26. 
"QRA" means for a given activity under Part A of the Project, the site-specific
Quantitative Risk Assessment for said activity to be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the ESIAF.
27. 
"RAP" means a site-specific resettlement action plan for Part A of the Project,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to be prepared and adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to the RPF, containing, inter alia, a program of actions,
measures and policies for the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of persons
affected by the implementation of the Project, including as a result of the acquisition of
land and other assets, and loss of access to land, other assets or income, whether
permanent or temporary, together with adequate institutional, monitoring, reporting and
grievance redressal arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular compliance with, its terms for each site, as such plan may be updated from time to
time with the prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank; and "RAPs" means more than
one RAP.
28. 
"ReGas" means Regional Gas Company established in 2007 pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 8 of 1997, and which has been granted concession by EGAS to carry out,
among others, design, construction, management, operation and maintenance of natural
gas activities related to domestic, commercial and industrial consumers in specified
governorates in the Borrower's territory, including Sohag and Marsa Matrouh
governorates, and any successor thereto.
29. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework for Part A of the Project,
including all schedules and annexes thereto, prepared and disclosed in the Borrower's
territory on March 23, 2014 and at the Bank's Infoshop on March 24, 2014, setting forth,
inter alia: (a) the rules, procedures and guidelines for the resettlement, rehabilitation,
livelihood improvement and payment of compensation to people affected by the
implementation of the Project, including as a result of the acquisition of land and other
assets, and loss of access to land, other assets or income, whether permanent or
temporary, as well as monitoring, reporting, institutional and grievance redressal
measures to be taken; and (b) the procedures and arrangements for the preparation of
RAPs as may be required pursuant to said framework, as such framework may be
updated from time to time with the prior written approval of the Borrower and the Bank.
30. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means, collectively, the ESIAF, ESIA, ESMP, RPF, RAP and
QRA.
31. 
"Selected Areas" means the areas in the following governorates within the Borrower's
territory where the Project will be implemented: Giza, over which Town Gas Company
has concession to carry out its activities; Qalubia, Menufia, Daqahlia, Qena, Gharbia and
Aswan, over which Egypt Gas Company has concession to carry out its activities; Sohag,
and Marsa Matrouh, over which ReGas has concession to carry out its activities;
Alexandria, over which both Town Gas Company and Sianco have concession to carry
out their respective activities; and Ismailia, over which both Town Gas Company and
SinaiGas have concession to carry out their respective activities, all of which have been
selected in accordance with methodology and targeting criteria agreed with the Bank and
detailed in the Project Implementation Manual, and such other areas in these or other
- 18-
governorates under the concession of these or other LDCs as may be selected during
Project implementation with the prior written approval of the Bank.
32. 
"Sianco" means the company established in the year 2000 pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 3 of 1998, and which has been granted concession by EGAS to carry out,
among others, design, construction, management, operation and maintenance of natural
gas activities related to domestic, commercial and industrial consumers in specified
governorates in the Borrower's territory, including Alexandria governorate, and any
successor thereto.
33. 
"SinaiGas" means the company established in 2010 pursuant to the Borrower's Law No.
8 of 1997, and which has been granted concession by EGAS to carry out, among others,
design, construction, management, operation and maintenance of natural gas activities
related to domestic, commercial and industrial consumers in specified governorates in the
Borrower's territory, including Ismailia governorate, and any successor thereto.
34. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section L.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of
the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
35. 
"Town Gas Company" means company established in the year 2000 pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 8 of 1997 and which has been granted concession by EGAS to carry
out, among others, design, construction, management, operation and maintenance of
natural gas activities related to domestic, commercial and industrial consumers in
specified governorates in the Borrower's territory, including Giza, Ismailia, and
Alexandria governorates, and any successor thereto.
