OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS)
LOAN NUMBER 8390-AM
Loan Agreement
(Trade Promotion and Quality Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
6, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8390-AM
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
r 
/ 
, 2014, between the REPUBLIC OF
ARMENIA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hcreby agee as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, a loan in an amount equivalent to fifty million United States Dollars
($50,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or, (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out: (a) Parts A, C and D of the Project through the MoE, while
coordinating implementation of Part C with NIM, NAB and SARM; (b) Parts B.1 and
B.2 through the IEPI; and (c) Part B.3 through IEPI and EIF; all in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Borrower's legislation on trade promotion and quality systems has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
-2-
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.
6.02 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
1 Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
374 6070035?
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
e:____
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Autho zed Representative
Name:u/ 
_Zj?d 
1
Title:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to provide export promotion,
investment attraction and quality management services to firms.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improving the Effectiveness of Trade Promotion and Quality Systems
Provision of financing of payments under the Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEPs) in support of
reforms aimed at improving the trade promotion and quality system through disbursement on
achievement of agreed-upon actions, outputs and outcomes ("Disbursement-Linked Indicators
(DLIs), including, inter-alia:
1. Establishment of the new IEPI, strengthening its operations, and creating the enabling
environment for investnieit and exports, through, inter-alia: i) development and
implementation of an Investment Reform Map to attract investment to the country;
ii) merging the Armenian Development Agency (ADA) and the Industrial Development
Foundation (IDF) to create IEPI; iii) establishment of the new National Tourism
Organization (NTO); iv) staffing IEPI with an organizational structure in line with
international best practices; v) improving IEPI's monitoring and evaluation process; and
vi) ensuring allocation of adequate State budgets to conduct the activities outlined in
IEPI's action plans.
2. Strengthening the NIM by: i) staffing the organization with individuals with the required
skill set; ii) providing the necessary state budget for the staff and activities required to run
internationally accredited metrology laboratories; iii) improving NIM's monitoring and
evaluation process; and iv) support for achieving international accreditation for the
laboratories by an accreditation entity which is a signatory to an MLA/MRA from ILAC
or IAF.
3. Strengthening the NAB by: i) staffing the organization with individuals with the required
skill set; ii) providing the necessary state budget for the staff and approved activities; iii)
improving NAB's monitoring and evaluation process; and iv) support for achieving
international recognition by an international accreditation organizations through global
accreditation entities such as ILAC or IAF.
Part B: Promoting Investment and Exports
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to actively provide services to improve the capacity of
local exporters to compete in foreign markets, facilitate cluster development, and attract
efficiency seeking foreign direct investment (FDI), through a set of activities, including:
-5-
1. Services to Investors and Exporters
Carrying out key support services to investors and exporters , such as: (i) financing costs
for the establishment of Armenian representatives in key foreign export and investment
markets to conduct marketing and promotion activities; (ii) financing costs for the
development of a set of export programs and market research services, including the
development of an "Exporter's Manual", an "Export Readiness Assessments", and
"Export Training Programs"; (iii) carrying out image building and investment outreach
services; (iv) building the information technology infrastructure for IEPI, including the
procurement of IT equipment and the development of a Customer Relationship
Management (CRM) system to improve the efficiency of operations; (v) carrying out
training and capacity building activities; and (vi) hiring an international expert as IEPI's
''resident advisor".
2. Export Development Grants
(a) Provision of Grants to eligible Beneficiaries to co-finance the development and
implementation of knowledge and marketing services to improve SMEs with export
potential and increase the awareness of their products and services in foreign
markets;
(b) financing the support of the administrative costs for the Grants management,
including the hiring of a Grant manager and compensation for the Independent
Selection Committee responsible for evaluation of applications and financing
decisions for Grants, and
(c) carrying out of marketing, communication activities, and workshops.
3. PPP Initiatives
(a) Supporting public private partnerships (PPPs) initiatives to encourage "cluster
development" and "research and skills development" activities;
(b) financing research 
and skills 
development joint projects 
proposed 
by
multinationals or industry associations partnered with academia to develop enabling
infrastructure business such as joint laboratories and innovation centers; and
(c) supporting of the administrative costs of the PPP management, including the
hiring of two PPP managers (one based in IEPI and the other in EIF) services
from a PPP expert as needed, and the compensation of an Independent
Investment Committee responsible for evaluation of applications and financing
decisions, and PPP-related communication and outreach activities, and provision
of technical assistance for beneficiaries.
Part C: Modernizin2 the National Oualitv Infrastructure
1. 
Provision of support to the NIM for the development of industrial metrology laboratories
in line with international standards, through, inter-alia: (i) the renovation of an industrial
-6-
metrology building as well as the design and construction of seven key industrial
metrology laboratories in said building; (ii) the provision of adequate equipment and
furniture for the laboratories; (iii) the hiring of an expert with acceptable qualifications
and experience as NIM's "resident advisor"; (iv) the hiring of a firm to support the
implementation of a Quality Management System (QMS); and (v) the carrying out of
capacity building activities for NIM staff and development of guidelines and manuals for
NIM operations.
2. 
Provision of support to NAB, including through: (1) te refurbishment of the NAB office
space, and (ii) the development of guidelines and manuals for NAB operations, (iii) the
carrying out of capacity building activities for NAB staff on selected topics related to
accreditation processes, and (iv) the development of NAB's information technology
management system including on-line application system and database.
3. 
Provision of support to SARM to build a modem information technology infrastructure,
including through: (i) the upgrade of SARM's website, (ii) the establishment of an
electronic library and database for the catalogue of standards, (iii) the procurement of the
relevant international standaras documents, and (iv) the provision of adequate information
technology equipment.
Part D: Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
Supporting the Borrower's Project management and monitoring evaluation including
provision of financing for: (i) Incremental Operating Costs for the PMU, FFPMC, IEPI,
EIF, and; (ii) staff costs (such as consultants employed as part of the PMU and FFPMC,
including a Project manager, a translator, a Safeguards specialist, a Monitoring and
Evaluation specialist, financial management specialist, and a procurement specialist); (iii)
office equipment; and (iv) Project audits (such as audit for verification of DLIs and any
other audits, as required).
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. The Borrower shall:
(a) 
promptly after the Effectiveness Deadline, establish and maintain until the
completion of the Project, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) chaired by the
MoE and consisting of the representatives from all entities involved in Project
implementation, with structure, functions, and responsibilities set forth in the
Operational Manual, to provide oversight of the Project.
(b) 
Designate a unit within the MoE as the Project Management Unit (PMU) with
the responsibility of overall project coordination, safeguards compliance,
monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, and reporting to the Bank and the
PSC on Project implementation. The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU has, at
all times adequate capacity and resources to fulfill its responsibilities with respect
to Project implementation. To this end, the PMU shall hire and thereafter
maintain, at all times during Project implementation or as agreed with the Bank:
(i) a social and environmental safeguards specialist, (ii) a monitoring &
evaluation specialist, (iii) an IT expert, (iv) an engineer, and (v) a translator; all
of whose qualifications, experience, and terms of reference shall be acceptable to
the Bank.
(c) 
Designate the FFPMC as the unit with the responsibility for the fiduciary aspects
of the Project (including financial management and procurement) and ensure that
FFPMC has, at all times adequate staff and resources to fulfill its responsibilities
with respect to Project implementation, including the hiring of independent
auditors for the verification of appropriate disbursement against EEPs and DLIs,
in addition to the general Project audit.
(d) 
Carry out a mid-term review jointly with the Bank at the end of the second year
of Project implementation to review DLIs and EEPs compliance, and revise them
if deemed necessary.
2. 
Project Operational Manual:
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank: (a) a Project Operational Manual (POM) for general
activities of the Project and shall include: (i) details on flow of funds, (ii) detailed
implementation 
of 
activities 
including 
administrative, 
procurement, 
financial
management, accounting, safeguards, monitoring and (iii) evaluation procedures and
arrangements for the Project; (b) a Grant Implementation Manual containing the
requirements, criteria, and decision making processes for the selection of the Exporter
-8-
Development Grants; and (c) a PPPs Implementation Manual which shall set forth a
selection process, eligibility and procedures for PPP Initiatives.
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the POM, the Grant
Implementation Manual and the PPP Implementation Manual; and shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned manuals, or any provision thereof, without the prior written agreement of
the Bank.
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of any inconsistency between the provisions
of the POM, the Grant Implementation Manual and the PPP Implementation Manual and
those of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Exporter Development Grants
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) appraise, review, approve, and monitor the Grants; and (b) make
Grants to selected Beneficiaries all in accordance with the provisions of this Section I.C
and eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the Grant Implementation Manual.
2. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed Grant shall be eligible
for financing under Part B.2 of the Project unless the Borrower has determined that the
Grant satisfies the following eligibility criteria and such additional criteria as may be
specified in the Grant Implementation Manual:
(a) 
the activities to be supported by the Grant are economically, financially and
technically feasible, environmentally sound and relate to knowledge and
marketing activities;
(b) 
the proposed Grant satisfies the eligibility criteria for safeguards specified in the
Grant Implementation Manual, the activities do not include any land acquisition
or resettlement, and is in compliance with the provisions of the Project ESMF
and RPF and Bank's safeguard policies; and
(d) 
if, on the basis of the environmental and social screening conducted for the Grant
proposal, an EMP and/or RAP shall be required, such EMP and RAP shall have
been prepared pursuant to the ESMF and RPF and shall have been approved by
the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall make available Grants to Beneficiaries from the proceeds of the
Loan, under a Grant Agreement between FFPMC, IEPI, and the respective Beneficiary
on terms and conditions approved by the Bank and outlined in the Grant Implementation
Manual, which shall include the following:
-9-
(a) 
The Grant shall be made on a non-reimbursable basis.
(b) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary
to use the proceeds of the Grant, or (ii) obtain a refund of all or any part of the
amount of the Grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform
any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement.
(c) 
The Beneficiary shall be required to contribute to the activities related to the
Grant in cash or in kind, in accordance with the Grant Implementation Manual.
(d) 
The Borrower shall require each Beneficiary to:
(i) 
carry out its Grant activities, with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the
Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines appicable to recipieiis of loan proceeds other than the
Borrower; 
*
(ii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose of
implementing Grant activities;
(iii) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Grant in
accordance with methods as described in the Grant Implementation
Manual;
(iv) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
progress of the Grant activities and the achievement of its objectives;
(v) 
(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with the Borrower's accounting standards, as
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Grant; and (B) at
the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such financial statements
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank;
(vi) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the implementation of the
corresponding Grant activities, their operation and any relevant records
and documents; and
(vii) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as
the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing.
-10-
4. 
IEPI shall exercise its rights under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive any Grant Agreement or any of their provisions.
D. 
PPP Initiatives
1 
The Borrower shall select eligible PPP initish 
based on the eligibility criteria set
forth in the PPP Implementation Manual, through a selection committee to be
established by EIF and IEPI.
2. 
The Borrower shall make available financing for a selected PPP Initiative under a
tripartite agreement between the FFPMC, the EIF or IEPI and a selected firm or
consortium (the PPP Agreement) on terms and conditions approved by the Bank and
outlined in the PPP Implementation Manual, which shall include the following:
(a) The selecte 
finti or consortium to benefit from the initiative shall be required to
contribute to the activities related to the PPP Initiative in cash or in kind, in
accordance with the PPP Implementation Manual.
(b) The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, including the right to suspend or terminate the right of the selected firm or
consortium to use the proceeds of the PPP Initiative in case of its failure to
perform any of its obligations under the PPP Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall require the selected firm or consortium to:
(i) carry out the PPP Initiative with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial,
environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank,
(ii) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the implementation of the
corresponding PPP Initiative, their operation and any relevant records and
documents; and
(iii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower, through the FFPMC and EIF or IEPI, shall exercise its rights under
each PPP Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any PPP
Agreement or any of their provisions.
- 11 -
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF), 
site-specific Environmental Management 
Plans (EMPs), and
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) as the case may be.
2. 
The Borrower, shall ensure that said EMPs and RAPs, if needed, will be
prepared, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the Manuals and
the ESMF and RPF, and construction activities shall commence only until respective
EMPs and RAPs are prepared and implemented.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
report.
(b) 
For purposes of reporting the achievements of the DLIs, the PMU at MoE will be
responsible for reporting documentation on: (i) compliance with the agreed
activities/targets for the DLIs, and (ii) the actual amount of EEPs incurred,
(according to the information provided by the MoE's Department of Budgeting
and Financing), in such a manner that disbursements can be made by June each
year, upon validation performed by independent auditors for activities/targets met
during the previous year.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
- 12 -
4. 
The Borrower shall have validated the actual level of Eligible Expenditures by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank on the terms of reference agreed with the
Bank. Each validation of the actual Eligible Expenditures shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower. The auditor's validation report for each such period, which
will be required for the disbursement of respective funds under the DLI scheme, shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Servi-es. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for procurement of
goods, works and non-consulting services for the Project, provided that the
following provisions are complied with:
(i) 
entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority shareholding
shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the Government unless they
are and can be shown to be legally and financially autonomous and operate
under commercial law;
- 13 -
Procurement Method
(ii) 
post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract performance,
financial, managerial and technical capabilities of bidders;
(iii) joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations;
(iv) 
estimated contract prices shall not be advertised;
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening;
(vi) 
no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated price.
Bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions of clause
2.61- 2.64 of the Procurement Guidelines are met;
(vii) all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or
expressed as a pass!fail criteria; and
(viii) advance Bank's approval is required for any modifications in the contract
scope/conditions during implementation.
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
(e) 
Loans to Financial Intermediary Institutions and Entities
(f) 
Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial
Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank
(g) 
Procurement under Public Private Partnership (PPP) Arrangements in
accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
- 14 -
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Fixed-Budget Selection
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants Qualification
(e) 
Single Source Selection
(h) 
Selection of Consultants in Loans to Financial Intermediary Institutions and
Entities
(f) 
-
Procedure-. set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultnnts
Guideiine, tor the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to (a)
finance the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the General Conditions;
and (b) finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
- 15 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD)
(1) Payments made for EEP 
10,000,000 
Amount up to withdrawal
under Part A of the Project 
ceiling set forth in the table in
Schedule 4
(2) Goods, works, non- 
18,500,000 
100% exclusive of taxes
consulting services, and
consultants' services 
-
(including audits), Training,
and Incremental Operating
Costs under Parts B, C, and D
of the Project
(3) Grants under Part B.2 of 
3,000,000 
100%of Grant amounts,
the Project 
exclusive of taxes
(4) Financing for PPP 
18,375,000 
100% of PPP Initiative
Initiatives under Part B.3 of 
-
amounts, exclusive of taxes
the Project
(5) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amiout payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$50000,000
For purposes of this Schedule:
(i) 
The Term "Training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower for costs
associated with training, workshops and/or study tours, as agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank;
(ii) 
The Term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by the
Borrower, the PMU, FFPMC, IEPI, and EIF, in connection with Project
implementation, which includes: 
vehicle rental, cost of fuel, insurance, operation,
and maintenance of vehicles, minor office equipment, office supplies, utilities,
communication and media advertisement costs, printing and publications (electronic
and/or paper), maintenance costs, training, meetings and in-country travel costs,
translation, and salaries, including health benefits, but excluding salaries for civil
servants, and other expenditures that may be agreed with the Bank during Project
implementation.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
-16-
(a) For payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed two million Dollars (USD 2,000,000) may be
made for payments made up to twelve months prior to the date of the signature of this
Agreement for Eligible Expenditures under Category 1.
(b) For payments under Category (2), (3) and (4) pertaining to Part B of the Project,
unless the new IEPI has been established, and all processes required under the
Borrower's laws and regulations for IEPI's operation have been completed, and the
agency has appropriate mandate, staff ani t r resources in place with operational
capacity satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) For payments made for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) unless evidence has
been furnished to the Bank of compliance with (i) the Disbursement-Linked
Indicators and the respective 
validaton carried out by independent auditors, as
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement as applicable to the Eligible Expenditures
Programs, and (ii) the pertinent conditions/provisions set forth in the additional
instructions referred to in Section IV.A. 1.of this Schedule.
(d) For payments under Category (3) and (4), unless the Borrower has adopted, in
accordance with Section I. B. of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, the Grant
Implementation Manual and the PPPs Implementation Manual, respectively,
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts disbursed by the
Borrower under Category (1) was made: (a) for expenditures which are not eligible under
the EEPs; or (b) not in compliance with the provisions of this Section B; the Borrower
shall promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of Category (1), if one or more of the DLIs
provided for in the disbursement conditions above have not been achieved by their due
dates, as agreed with the Bank, the Bank at its sole discretion may:
a) 
At a later date, if an when the Bank is satisfied that the respective DLI have been
achieved, authorize the withdrawal of the Loan proceeds so withheld; or
b) 
At any time, by notice to the Borrower: (i) cancel the corresponding amount of
the Loan withheld or (ii) reallocate said amounts to other DLIs.
4. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
___________________________________- 
(Eypressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15 
(
Beginning August 15, 2024,through August 15, 2038 
3.33%
On February 15, 2039 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 18 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Appr-ved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of thir ocnedule shall apply separately to the amoult denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
DISBURSEMENT LINKED INDICATORS
Expected Due (Achievement) Dates and amounts per year 
Withdraw
al Ceiling
Disbursement-Linked Indicator 
DLIs to be reviewed annually and must be satisfactory to the World Bank 
(US$)
(DLI)
Jun-2015 
Jun-2016 
Jun-2017 
Jun-2018 
Jun-2019 
Jun-2020
DLI .1 Government Decree on 
-
adoption of Investment Reform Map 
125,000 
-
-
-
-
125,000
issued
DLI 2: Merger of ADA and IDF into 
125,000 
-
-
-
-
125,000
the IEPI
DLI 3: Government decree issued to 
125,000 
-
-
-
-
125,000
establish NTO
DLI 4: IEPI staffed with
organizational structure in line with 
125,000 
100,000 
100,000 
100,000 
100,000 
50,000 
575,000
international best practice
DLI $:.Adequate budget for lEPland 
150,000 
200,000 
200,00 
200,000 
206,000 
75,000 
1,025,000
incVrd in State budget 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_______
DLI 6: Monitoring and Evaluation 
150,000 
300,000 
300,000 
300,000 
200,000 
50,000 
1,300,000
conducted for IEPI
DLI 7: NIM staffed with
organizational structure in line with 
100,000 
200,000 
200,000 
200,000 
200,000 
75,000 
975,000
international best practice 
I
DLI 8: Adequate budget for NIM 
150,000 
300,000 
300,000 
300,000 
300,000 
50,000 
1,400,000
included in state budget
DLI 9: Monitoring and Evaluation 
100,000 
300,000 
300,000 
300,000 
200,000 
50,000 
1,250,000
conducted
DLI 10: Accreditation attained for at
least 2 metrology laboratories from an
accreditation organization that is a 
-
100,000 
100,000
signatory to an MLA or MRA from
[LAC or IAF
DLI 11: NAB staffed with
organizational structure in line with 
100,000 
100,000 
100,000 
100,000 
100,000 
50,000 
550,000
international best practice
DLI 12: Adequate budget for NAB 
150,000 
200,000 
200,000 
200,000 
200,000 
50,000 
1,000,000
included in State budget
DLI 13: Monitoring and Evaluation 
100,000 
300,000 
300,000 
300,000 
200,000 
50,000 
1,250,000
conducted
DLI 14: NAB attains MLA or MRA
from ILAC or IAF in testing 
-
200,000 
200,000
laboratories according to ISO/IEC
17025
Total 
1,500,000 
2,000,000 
2,000,000 
2,000,000 
2,000,000 
s00,000 
10,000,000
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"ADA" means Armenian Development Agency established pursuant to Government
decree No. 219, dated April 2, 1998.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" -means the "T 
eines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Beneficiary" means a small or medium enterprise eligible, in accordance with the
criteria set forth in the Grant Implementation Manual, to receive a Grant under Part B.2
of the Project. "Beneficiaries" means more than one Beneficiary.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section TV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
6. 
"DLIs" means the "Disbursement-Linked Indicators" as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, as such indicators refer to specific outputs and outcome indicators measuring
improved performance of the Borrower's effectiveness of trade promotion and quality
systems.
7. 
"Eligible Expenditure Programs" or "EEPs" means, a portion of the Borrower's
budgetary allocation for financing benefits under the trade promotion and quality
systems' programs, consistent of gross salaries of all relevant support and quality
infrastructure agencies (the new IEPI, the new NTO (National Tourism Organization),
IDF, ADA, EIF, SMEDNC, NIM, NAB, NCFA, and SARM), trade representatives'
remuneration, MoE staff, Minister of Economy's staff.
8. 
"EMP" means "Environmental Management Plan/s" to be prepared by the Borrower or a
Beneficiary under Part B.2 of the Project and approved by the Bank for individual project
activities in accordance with the ESMF, to be disclosed and discussed with stakeholders
prior to tendering of works, and to be included into work contracts as part of contractual
obligations of work providers.
9. 
"ESMF" means "Environmental and Social Management Framework" prepared by the
Borrower and approved by the Bank on April 14, 2014, pursuant to Section I.E of
Schedule 2 of this Agreement which (i) sets forth procedures for environmental and
social screening and environmental classification of the project activities; (ii) provides
guidance for the preparation of site-specific Environmental Management Plans to
eliminate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts or to reduce them to
- 21 -
acceptable levels; and (iii) establishes institutional arrangements for monitoring and
reporting on the environmental compliance of the project activities.
10. 
"Grant" means a grant to an eligible Beneficiary financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to support the acquisition of knowledge, marketing, and other approved activities under
Part B.2 of the Project.
11. 
"Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered to between the FFPMC, IEPI and
Beneficiaries for the financing-of activities under Part B.2 of the Project
12. 
"EIF" means "Enterprise Incubator Foundation" of the Borrower established pursuant to
a Decree #1165 dated November 27, 2001 of the Borrower's Cabinet Minister.
13. 
"FFPMC" means Foreign Financial Projects Management Center within the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower established pursuant to the Minister of Finance and Economy's
Decree No. 37, dated March 29, 2000.
14. 
"General Conditions" 
means the 
"Interiational 
Lank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
15. 
"IAF" means "International Accreditation Forum" which is the global association of
Conformity Assessment Accreditation Bodies.
16. 
"IDF" means Industrial Development Fund established pursuant to the Government's
decision, No. 1405-N dated November 8, 2012.
17. 
"IEPI" means the "Investment Export Promotion and Industrial Development Agency" of
Armenia, to be established by the Borrower, as referred to under Part A. 1 of the Project.
18. 
"ILAC" means International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation which is cooperation
global association of laboratory and inspection accreditation bodies.
19. 
"IT" means Information Technology.
20. 
"MoE" means the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Armenia or any successor
thereto.
21. 
"MLA/MRA" means Multilateral Agreement or Mutual Recognition Agreements which
allow accreditations issued by members of the MLA/MRA to be recognized by the other
members of the MLA/MRA.
22. 
"MoF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia or any successor
thereto.
23. 
"NAB" or "National Accreditation Body" is a non-profit governmental organization
which provides accreditation services to conformity assessment bodies within the
Republic of Armenia, established in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Armenia
on Accreditation HO-20-N on March 5, 2012.
- 22 -
24. 
"NCAF" means the "National Competitiveness Foundation of Armenia", established
pursuant to the Borrower's Cabinet Ministers Decree No. 1324-A dated November 8,
2007.
25. 
"NIM" or "National Institute of Metrology" which was established according to the Law
adopted by the National Assembly on May 26, 2004 and Government's decisions No.
1032 (July 22, 2004) and No. 882 (February, 9, ^0 2).
26. 
"NTO" means the National Tourism Organization, the new agency to be established by
the Borrower, as referred to under Part A. 1 of the Project.
27. 
"PPP Initiatives", means the Public Private Partnership investment projects selected in
accordance with the criteria set forth in the PPP Implementation Manual and to be
financed from the proceeds of the Loan.
28. 
"PPP Initiatie Ag,eemenit" means the agreement to be entered "1tween FFPMC. IEPi or
EIF and selected firm or consortium on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
establishing the conditions under which these initiatives would be funded.
29. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
30. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated April
22, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
31. 
"RAPs" or "Resettlement Action Plan/s" means specific resettlement action plan/s to be
prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank, pursuant to Section I. E. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, if required, in accordance with the RPF.
32. 
"RPF' or "Resettlement Policy Framework" means the framework prepared by the
Borrower and approved by the Bank on April 14, 2014 pursuant to Section I.E of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, defining the modalities for involuntary resettlement and
compensation of affected persons and providing guidance for the preparation and
implementation of RAPs under the Project, if required.
33. 
"SARM" means "National Institute of Standards" which was established according to
Government's decisions No.132 (October, 8, 2003) and No. 1180A (September 25,
2003).
34. 
"SMEDNC" means the Borrower's "Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Development
National Center" established by the Borrower's Cabinet Ministers Decree No. 282 dated
March 19, 2002.
- 23 -
35. 
"Steering Committee" means the group established for purposes of oversight of Project
implementation, with representatives from all entities involved in the implementation of
activities, and chaired by the Borrower's MoE, as referred to in Section L.A (a) of
Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
- 24 -
