FA
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8309-CN
Loan Agreement
(Anhui Yellow Mountain New Countryside Demonstration Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
- -1 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8309-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
M- 
o6 .1( 
, 2014, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be.equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year..
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to*this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on 'a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; -or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines..
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III- PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-2-
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
BAuthorized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR I.
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP 
T
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Aff
Title: 
A 7  
e-.....
-4-
SCHEDULE 1 - Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of services and income generating
opportunities available to rural households in selected villages of Huangshan Municipality.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Infrastructure Improvement
1. 
Construction and upgrading of basic infrastructure including, inter alia, village roads,
bridges, sidewalks, domestic and tourism pathways, street lightings, and associated sub-
surface infrastructure services.
2. 
Construction and/or rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation installations.
3. 
Supporting storm water and waste water management through the construction of
drainage systems, sewer networks, and low-cost and environmentally appropriate
treatment and disposal facilities.
4. 
Carrying out civil works such as embankment upgrading and clean-up to support river
enhancements for flood prevention, environmental and recreational uses.
5. 
Rehabilitation of small dams, ponds, and canals for irrigation and drainage.
Part B. 
Cultural Heritage Conservation
1. 
Carrying out of restoration and preservation works, as well as protection and reuse of
historic buildings for social, cultural, village environment, and tourism development
purposes, including through the: (a) arrestment of physical deterioration and
improvement of historical buildings' 
structural 
integrity, physical 
safety and
functionality; (b) provision of Sub-grants for the carrying out of Sub-grant Rehabilitation
Activities; (c) improvement of the presentation and signage of restored buildings; (d)
promotion and facilitation of the adaptive reuse of local cultural heritage assets; (e)
provision of support for the preparation of cultural heritage conservation plans for
selected villages; and (f) documentation, research, promotion, and dissemination of
materials and information on selected important intangible cultural heritage assets.
Part C. 
Enbanced Economic Opportunities
1. 
Provision of support to develop intensified production and improved quality of selected
high-value agriculture products, including initiatives to obtain green and organic
certification, and support eligible community associations (producer associations and
cooperatives) through the provision of Sub-grants for the carrying out of Community
Association Development Activities.
2. 
Development of income-generating tourism services including, inter alia: (a) adaptation
of existing buildings, promotion of tourism at the village level and training of villagers in
tourism industry skills; (b) changing the facades of existing houses/buildings to promote
the visibility and positive image of the villages; and (c) provision of ancillary facilities to
-5-.
support tourism activities, including tourism service centers, exhibition and performance
spaces, parking lots, public toilets and improvements to public spaces such as squares and
exercise facilities; and (d) support eligible community associations (rural tourism
associations) through the provision of Sub-grants for the carrying out of Community
Association Development Activities.
3. 
Development of improved marketing facilities and exhibition centers for local agriculture
and tourism products.
Part D. 
Institutional Support
1 .
Provision of support and technical assistance on different aspects of Project
implementation including, inter alia: (a) strategic research and planning, including on
new countryside development and market-led village-based tourism; and (b) municipal
infrastructure, cultural heritage, tourism, high-value agriculture, environment, social and
economic aspects.
2. 
Supporting the overall development of Huangshan Municipality to coordinate and
manage the implementation of the Project, including: (a) capacity development for
management, operation and maintenance of Project outputs; (b) establishment of an
information dissemination, communication, and promotion platform; (c) establishment of
financial, project management, and project monitoring and evaluation systems; (d)
provision of equipment to support Project systems (hardware and software); and (e)
provision of training and carrying out of Project-related studies and consultancies.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2 - Project Execution
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available to the
Project Implementing Entity the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
Categories set forth in the table in Section IV of this Schedule, on the following principal
terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant io Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be recovered
over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project, and to comply with its undertakings under the Project
Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and
the Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other
information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, all
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Project
Implementing Entity and Huangshan Municipality to comply with, the provisions of
Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
-7-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the
Bank and set forth in the Project Implementation Plan. Each Project Report shall cover
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. The
Borrower shall make, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to make, the audited
Financial Statements publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
Section M. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
-8-
the corresponding method described in Sections II and m of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the open
tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower's Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by
its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999; provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject
to the provisions of Section I, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section II, and Appendix 1 of the
Procurement Guidelines, and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict
between the Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall
govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-financed
contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly,
no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for such contract for reasons
other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction
based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders
shall be allowed to participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper of wide
circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely used website / electronic portal with
free national and international access acceptable to the Bank except for goods or non-
consulting services contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent
each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents
and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall
be given to bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the date of availability of
biddiig documents, whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of bids, and
the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for the submission of
bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website / electronic portal, the notice shall
remain readily accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline for the
submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding
documents at any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
-9-
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the qualification of
each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used for large,
complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the information upon which a bidder
was prequalified, including current commitments, shall be carried out at the time of
contract award, along with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and
equipment. All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification
documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-
qualified bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who
is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying
the qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall not be
required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding documents,
submitting its bid or receiving contract award. 
A bidder determined to be the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering (if
required) before contract signing without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be
restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also
be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the basis of
their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical area in which the
Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility contracts shall
be required to provide performance security in an amount sufficient to protect the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of
breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required
form and amount of such security and any other potential damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity to be
present (either in person or through their -representatives) at the time of bid opening, but
bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and quantified in
monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost estimate or
falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids established by the Borrower
or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or
re-bidding shall not be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than three (3),
and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's prior written
-10-
agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder; that is, the
bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid
has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations
not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
submitted. No negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and contract
shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals found
to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and contract
shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to inspection and audit of
accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of bids and contract
performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to bid or
submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they can establish that
they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and
(C) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xvii) 
Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of contract
shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the national or
provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official gazette or a free and
open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid;
(B) bid prices as read out at bid opening, (C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated
price, of each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose bids were either
rejected as non-responsive or not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the
reasons therefor; and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price,
as well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be
within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award recommendation
for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within two (2) weeks of the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award decision for contracts subject to the
Bank's post review. The bidding documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and /
or the electronic means by which the information on contract award will be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, shall
have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for bidders to protest.
The bidding documents shall provide the professional title and address of the official to
whom such protests should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used:
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) 
Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual)
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-12-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works 
88,520,000 
86%
(2) Goods, Consultant 
10,150,000 
100%
services, Training
(3) Sub-grants 
1,080,000 
100% of amounts disbursed
(4) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of .this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments
made prior to this date but on or after November 1, 2013, for all Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3 - Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the.
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
2%
Beginning March 15,.2019
through September 15, 2043
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 14-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the.
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Community Association Development Activity" means an activity or set of activities
under Parts C.1 and/or C.2 of the Project, aiming at the establishment and/or
strengthening of an eligible local community association (such as a producer association
or cooperative, and/or a rural tourism association, as the case may be), pursuant to the
eligibility criteria and procedures set forth to that effect in the Operational Manual, and
which may include the financing of expenditures related to association registration fees,
training, improvement of the association's production base, establishment of market
links, coverage of operational expenses and/or other community association development
activities.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
5. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
6. 
"Environmental Codes of Practice" or the acronym "ECOPs" means the detailed
practices to address construction related impacts of Project implementation, included in
the EMP.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or the acronym "EMP" means the Environmental
Management Plan dated June 27, 2013, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity and
included in the Operational Manual, which plan sets out the environmental protection
measures in respect of the Project (including pest management and physical cultural
relies procedures), as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the
implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto.
-16-
8. 
"General 
Conditions" means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
9. 
"Huangshan Municipality" means the Borrower's Municipality of Huangshan, located in
the Borrower's Anhui Province, or any successor thereto.
10. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated October 25, 2013 referred to in paragraph
4 of Section L.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, prepared and adopted by
Huangshan Municipality and which sets forth the operational arrangements for the
Project, including, inter alia: (a) the Project's performance indicators; (b) financial
management, disbursement and audit procedures; (c) technical models and procurement
procedures; (d) procedures for the provision of Sub-grants, including procurement and
monitoring arrangements, eligibility criteria and model agreements; (e) safeguards
procedures and safeguards instruments, including the RPF, RAP and EMP; and (f)
provisions to be followed with regard to dam safety standards and dam management
under the Project, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
August 5, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
13. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement
14. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Anhui Province, or any successor
thereto.
15. 
"Project Leading Group" means the Project Leading Group established by Huangshan
Municipality to provide overall leadership, policy guidance and institutional coordination
in Project preparation and implementation, and any successor thereto, and referred to in
Section I.A. 1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
16. 
"Project Management Office" means the office, established by Huangshan Municipality
to coordinate the preparation of the Project and supervise and monitor its implementation,
and referred to in Section IA.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
17. 
"Project Management Unit" means the unit, established by each county and district in
Anhui Province to coordinate the preparation of the Project and supervise and monitor its
implementation at the county or district level, and referred to in Section I.A. 1(c) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
-17-
18. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or the acronym "RAP" means the plan, dated June 25, 2013
adopted by Huangshan Municipality and included in the Operational Manual, which sets
forth the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and
the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the
execution of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.
19. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or the acronym "RPF" means the policy framework,
dated June 25, 2013, adopted by Huangshan Municipality and included as part of the
Operational Manual, which sets out the policies and procedures for resettlement,
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of
resettlement action plans during the implementation of the Project, as said policy
framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said Policy
Framework.
20. 
"Sub-grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made under Parts B.1, C.1 and/or C.2
of the Project to a Sub-grant Eligible Beneficiary, for the carrying out of an approved
Sub-grant Rehabilitation Activity or a Community Association Development Activity, in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth to that effect in the respective Sub-
grant Agreement and the Operational Manual.
21. 
"Sub-grant Eligible Beneficiary" means: (a) an individual property owner that complies
with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to receive a Sub-grant for
the rehabilitation of a privately owned historical building under Part B.1 of the Project; or
(b) a community association such as a producer association, cooperative, and/or a rural
tourism association that complies with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual to benefit from a Sub-grant for the carrying out of a Community Association
Development Activity under Parts C. I and/or C.2 of the Project.
22. 
"Sub-grant Agreement" means an agreement, referred to in Section-D.1 of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, entered into between Huangshan Municipality, through the
relevant PMU, and a Sub-grant Eligible Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and
conditions governing a Sub-grant.
23. 
"Sub-grant Rehabilitation Activity" means a historical private building restoration
activity carried out or to be carried out by an individual property owner under Part B.1 of
the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a Sub-grant in accordance with
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and the respective Sub-grant Agreement.
24. 
"Technical Expert Group" or the acronym "TEG" means the team of experts established
by Huangshan Municipality and referred to in Section I.A.1(d) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, including professionals with adequate qualifications and experience
in transport, water supply and sanitation, cultural heritage, tourism, agriculture, and
environment with terms of reference, compositions, and other resources acceptable to the
Bank.
25. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on annual work
plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and
domestic and overseas study trips, along with travel and subsistence allowances for
training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and
reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to course
preparation and implementation.
-19-
