OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS,
LOAN NUMBER 8342-AM
Loan Agreement
(Education Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
3 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8342-AM
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2014, between the REPUBLIC
OF 
ARMENIA 
("Borrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, a loan in an amount equivalent to fifteen million
United States Dollars ($15,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-3-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Education
and Science (hereinafter, "MoES") in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
-4-
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled; and
(b) 
The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by
the Borrower.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
I Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
374 60700358
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
fNTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
_______
Title: 
Af/,' 
/ 
ad-ec
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEJOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: ~A~ 
Ai, 
4d
Title: iiizA 
z654- k,i 
a/4
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve school readiness of children entering
primary education, improve physical conditions and the availability of educational
resources in upper secondary schools, and support improved quality and relevance in
higher education institutions of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following components:
Part A: Enhancing the Quality of General Education
Provision of support to enhance the quality of general education through:
1 .
Promoting school readiness and equal opportunities at the start of general
education with a focus on vulnerable populations through: (i) the carrying out of
a study on pre-school education micro-projects; (ii) evaluation and selection of
community-based Pre-school Micro-projects, and provision of competitive Sub-
grants to Pre-school 
Micro-project Beneficiaries 
for the Micro-projects'
implementation; (iii) dissemination activities and training for community leaders,
members, parents and representatives of potential service providers; (iv)
provision of technical assistance for the implementation of the Micro-projects;
and (v) monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the micro-projects. The sub-
grants extended to communities will support refurbishment of classrooms,
purchase of equipment and furniture, provision of pedagogical materials and
teacher training.
2. 
Carrying out a set of activities aimed at improving upper secondary schools,
including, inter-alia: (i) the rehabilitation and refurbishment of selected high
schools; and (ii) the provision of contextualized digital learning materials,
necessary information and communication technologies equipment such as up to
date computers and other e-materials, and school furniture to all high schools.
3. 
Improving data collection and the monitoring of the education system
performance through: (i) the development of an Information Communication
Technology (ICT) education strategy for the National Center for Educational
Technology (NACET); (ii) the rehabilitation and refurbishment of the NACET's
facilities; (iii) the provision of hardware and software platforms needed to run
Education Management Information Systems (EMIs); (iv) the establishment of
technical service mechanisms for the maintenance of hardware and software in
Armenian schools; (v) training of NACET staff on management, planning, and
monitoring and evaluation; (vi) training teachers and non-teaching staff of
schools, universities and vocational education and training institutions on the
integration of ICT into teaching and learning processes as well as training of
-7-
users of EMIS in schools and institutions; and (vii) financing the participation
fees for subsequent editions of the International Trends in Mathematics and
Science Studies (TIMSS).
4. 
Supporting further improvements in the quality of education through curriculum
revisions by bringing the National Curriculum Framework for grades 1-12 into
conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's Law on General Education
and State General Education Standard, including: (i) the provision of technical
assistance to develop conceptual approaches for the revision of general education
subject standards and syllabuses; (ii) creation of various working groups for: (a)
the revision of subject standards and syllabuses for primary, basic, secondary
general and specialized education; and (b) the development of a module on short-
term training courses to raise awareness of teachers on changes in syllabuses and
standards; (iii) revisions and improvement of subject standards and syllabuses for
primary, basic, secondary general and specialized education as needed; and (iv)
training courses for textbook authors.
Part B: Mainstreaming of the Competitive Innovation Fund (CIF) for Higher Education
Institutions into full implementation
Supporting the institutionalization and roll-out of the Competitive Innovation
Fund program for higher education institutions (HEI) through, inter-alia: (i)
updating the CIF's operational processes and procedures; (ii) the evaluation and
selection of CIF Sub-projects, and provision of CIF Sub-grants to CIF Sub-
project Beneficiaries for the CIF Sub-projects' 
implementation; 
(iii) the
monitoring of the fund's implementation process, including surveys of grant
recipients and potential applicants and private sector partners; (iv) tapping
private-sector 
and international 
potential 
donors 
to bolster the fund's
sustainability; and (v) improving the capacity of HEls managerial and other
relevant staff members on project management skills, procurement, project
monitoring, and evaluation issues.
Part C: Proiect Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of financing and support for the effective functioning of the Center for
Education Project (CEP) as the implementation unit within the MoES, including
inter alia: the hiring of necessary core staff, monitoring and evaluation studies
and audits, assessments and evaluation of the implementation of Pre-school
Micro-projects and CIF Sub-projects, Project coordination, seminars and
workshops, financial management, communication 
outreach, procurement,
application of environmental and social safeguards, technical assistance and
training of relevant staff in the areas of procurement, disbursements, information
technology, project management and others.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Implementation Unit:
In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain, at all times during Project implementation, the Center
for Education Project as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within MoES,
with a mandate, staffing and other resources satisfactory to the Bank. To this end,
the PIU shall be: (a) comprised of qualified and competent staff in adequate
numbers, including a core group of technical, administrative, and support staff;
and (b) responsible for day to day Project coordination and implementation,
including: (i) decision making for the selection of the Pre-school Micro-projects
and CIF Sub-projects; (ii) carrying out Project financial management and
procurement activities all satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) ensuring compliance with
Safeguard Instruments for Project activities; and (iv) monitoring and evaluating
Project activities and preparing Project progress reports and monitoring and
evaluation reports. Not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date, the PIU
shall hire and thereafter maintain, at all times during Project implementation or
as agreed with the Bank, an environmental specialist, whose qualifications,
experience, and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Project Operational Manual:
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, a proposed implementation manual for the
Project containing detailed: (a) implementation of general activities as well as the
requirements, criteria, and decision making processes for the selection of the Pre-
school Micro-projects and CIF Sub-projects and their respective financing; and
(b) administrative, procurement, financial management, accounting; monitoring
and evaluation procedures and arrangements for the Project. Such Operational
Manual, which will include specific annexes related to the Pre-school Micro-
projects and CIF Sub-projects, shall be adopted by the Borrower after said
manual is approved by the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational
Manual; and shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned manual, or any
provision thereof, without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
-9-
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of any inconsistency between the
provisions of the Operational Manual and those of the Loan Agreement, the
provisions of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Pre-school Micro-projects and CIF Sub-projects
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) appraise, review, approve, and monitor the Pre-school
Micro-projects and CIF Sub-projects; and (b) make Micro-project Sub-grants and
CIF Sub-project Sub-grants to selected Beneficiaries, all in accordance with the
provisions of this Section I.C.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Micro-project Sub-grants and CIF Sub-project
Sub-grants are made to Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility criteria and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and in this Section I.C.
3. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed Micro-project
and/or Sub-project shall be eligible for financing under Part A. .(ii) and/or Part B
of the Project unless the Borrower has determined the proposed Micro-project
and/or Sub-project satisfies the following eligibility criteria and such additional
criteria as may be specified in the Operational Manual:
(a) 
the proposed Micro-project or Sub-project is economically, financially
and technically feasible, environmentally sound, and to be carried out by
eligible Beneficiaries in selected areas of the Borrower's territory;
(b) 
the proposed Micro-project 
or Sub-project 
consists of specific
development activities under Part A.1.(ii) or Part B of the Project,
respectively, and further elaborated in the Operational Manual and
complies with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower;
(c) 
the proposed Micro-project or Sub-project satisfies the eligibility criteria
for safeguards specified in the Operational Manual and is in compliance
with the provisions of the safeguard frameworks and other safeguards
documents required; and
(d) 
if, on the basis of the environmental screening conducted for the Micro-
project or Sub-project pursuant to the Operational Manual, an EMP shall
be required, such EMP shall have been prepared pursuant to the EMF
and shall have been approved by the Bank.
- 10-
4. 
The Borrower shall make available from the proceeds of the Loan each Sub-grant
to a Beneficiary to finance Micro-projects or Sub-projects under Part A. 1 (ii) or
Part B of the Project, respectively, under a Sub-grant Agreement with the
respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Bank and
outlined in the Operational Manual, which shall include the following:
(a) 
The Sub-grant shall be made on a grant basis.
(b) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and
those of the Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the
right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-grant, or (ii)
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-grant then
withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the Sub-grant Agreement.
(c) 
The Borrower shall require each Beneficiary to:
(i) 
carry out its Micro-project or Sub-project, as applicable, with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than
the Borrower;
(ii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose;
(iii) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the
Sub-grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(iv) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the
Bank, the progress of the Micro-project or Sub-project, as
applicable, and the achievement of its objectives;
(v) 
(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
related to the Micro-project or Sub-project; and (B) at the Bank's
or the Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
- 11 -
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the
Borrower and the Bank;
(vi) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Micro-project or
Sub-project, 
its operation 
and any relevant records 
and
documents; and
(vii) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing.
5. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Sub-grant Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-grant
Agreement or any of its provisions.
D. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Environmental Management Framework (EMF) and site-specific Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs), as the case may be. The Borrower, through MoES,
shall ensure that said EMPs will be prepared in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
and in accordance with the Operational Manual and the EMF.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. 
Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered
by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
- 12-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
- 13-
Procurement Method
(a) National 
Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for the Project,
provided that the following provisions are complied with:
(i) 
entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority
shareholding shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law;
(ii) 
post-qualification 
criteria 
shall 
only pertain 
to past contract
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of
bidders;
(iii) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations;
(iv) 
estimated contract prices shall not be advertised;
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening;
(vi) 
no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated
price. 
Bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the
conditions of clause 2.61 of the Procurement Guidelines are met;
(vii) all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or
expressed as a pass/fail criteria; and
(viii) advance Bank's approval is required for any modifications in the
contract scope/conditions during implementation.
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
- 14 -
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Fixed-Budget Selection
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants Qualification
(e) 
Single Source Selection
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultants
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 15-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
14,962,500 
80%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training, Incremental
Operating Costs and
Sub-grants under the
Project.
(2) Front-end Fee 
37,500 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
15,000.000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2019.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 
15, 2024 through 
3.33%
March 15, 2038
On September 15, 2038 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-17-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 18-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiary" 
means either a community-based 
Pre-school 
Micro-project
Beneficiary or a CIF Sub-project Beneficiary; and "Beneficiaries" means, more
than one community-based Pre-school Micro-project Beneficiary and/or CIF
Sub-project Beneficiary.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"CIF" means the "Competitive Innovation Fund", a fund established pursuant to
the Borrower's Resolution No. 47-43 dated December 1, 2011, operated and
administered by MoES, the objective of which is to stimulate innovation, develop
strategic plans in higher education and higher education institutions' quality
enhancement.
5. 
"CIF Sub-grants" means a grant to finance reasonable costs of goods, works,
services, Training, and Incremental Operating Costs required by a CIF Sub-
project to be carried out by a CIF Beneficiary under Part B of the Project.
6. 
"CIF Sub-project" or "Sub-project" means the specific development project to be
carried out by a CIF Sub-project Beneficiary under Part B of the Project.
7. 
"CIF Sub-project Beneficiary" means a selected higher education institution
(HEI) that receives Sub-grants to finance CIF Sub-projects under Part B of the
Project, selected in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in
the Operational Manual.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
9. 
"EMF" means the Environmental Management Framework, dated December 2,
2013, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, disclosed on December 4, 2013,
and in the Bank's InfoShop on December 11, 2013 referred to in Section I.D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and satisfactory to the Bank, describing the rules,
guidelines and procedures to assess environmental impacts of the Project's
activities and defining measures 
to reduce, mitigate or offset adverse
environmental impacts and enhance the positive impacts of the Project's
-19-
activities, as the same shall be amended from time to time with the prior approval
of the Bank.
10. 
"EMP(s)" means the site-specific Environmental Management Plan(s) to be
prepared and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section I.D of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, in accordance with the Operational Manual and the EMF, all
satisfactory to the Bank, wherein defining specific details of measures to manage
potential environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse
environmental impacts associated with the implementation of activities under the
Project, together with an environmental and social baseline for each site, details
of the relevant environmental legislative framework, adequate institutional,
monitoring 
and 
reporting 
arrangements 
capable 
of 
ensuring 
proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with its terms, as the
same may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the Bank's prior
written approval.
11. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
International Development Association for the Project, of the same date as this
Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. "Financing
Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Financing Agreement.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" shall mean the expenses incurred by the Borrower
or the PIU for the incremental expenses on account of Project implementation,
management, 
monitoring, 
including 
utilities, 
supplies, 
communications,
maintenance costs, advertising expenses, travel and per diems for employees of
the PIU, participation fees for TIMSS, salaries and statutory contributions of
support staff, but not including salaries of officials or employees of the
Borrower's civil service, as well as any contributions by these officials or
employees to any social fund.
14. 
"MoES" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and Science, or any
successor thereto.
15. 
"National Center of Education Technology" or "NACET" means center
established pursuant to the Borrower's Resolution No.408-N dated March 11,
2004, which provides ICT services and manages statistics from all educational
institutions in Armenia, including Vocational Education and Training and Higher
Education Institutions, except for pre-schools.
16. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual to be adopted by the
Borrower, describing procedures for the implementation of the Project (including
- 20 -
annexes related to the Pre-school Micro-projects and CIF Sub-projects),
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national laws and
regulations of the Borrower, including procedures governing administrative,
procurement, accounting, financial management, monitoring and evaluation
arrangements for the Project; as the same may be amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the Center for Education Project
("CEP") established within the MoES of the Borrower.
18. 
"Pre-school Micro-project" or "Micro-project" means the specific development
project to be carried out by a community-based Micro-project Beneficiary under
Part A.1 (ii) of the Project.
19. 
"Pre-school Micro-project Beneficiary" means a selected community-based
group or entity that receives Sub-grants to finance Pre-school Micro-projects
under Part A.1 (ii) of the Project, selected in accordance with eligibility criteria
and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.
20. 
"Pre-school Micro-project Sub-grant" means a grant to finance reasonable costs
of goods, works, services, training, and operating costs of a community-based
Micro-project to be carried out by a community-based Micro-project Beneficiary
under Part A. I (ii) of the Project.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 30, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Sub-grant(s)" means financing under Part A.1 (ii) and Part B of the Project
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for Micro-projects and CIF Sub-
projects selected and approved in accordance with Section I.C of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and the Operational Manual.
24. 
"Sub-grant Agreement" means each agreement entered into between the
Borrower and a Beneficiary, pursuant to which a Sub-grant shall be made by the
Borrower, to such Beneficiary, for a Micro-project or a Sub-project.
-21 -
25. 
"Training" means the expenses incurred by the Borrower or the PIU in
connection with study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other
training-related activities under the Project including travel costs and per diem
for participants, trainers and trainees, trainers' fees, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials and other activities incidental
to the preparation and implementation of training activities.
