fOFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8357-LK
Loan Agreement
(Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan
with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT-DDO))
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
Lo 
TWl 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8357-LK
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
T1y 
'0 
, 2014, entered 
into between the DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing
in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided
to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and two million Dollars ($102,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one half of one percent
(0.50%).
2.04. 
If, at the Borrower's request and on such terns and conditions as the Bank may agree, the
Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each extension of the
Closing Date shall be at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the amount of
the Loan available for withdrawal upon such extension. 
If the Borrower elects to
capitalize the fee from the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and pay to itself such amounts required to pay such fee. If the
Borrower elects to pay the fee from its own resources, the Borrower shall pay such fee
not later than sixty days after the date of the notice given by the Bank to the Borrower
confirming the extension of the Closing Date.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal
amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request repayment
provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement for such
Withdrawal, provided that (i) the average maturity of such Withdrawal does not
exceed eighteen (18) years from the Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of
such Withdrawal does not exceed thirty (30) years from the Withdrawal Date (or
such other average maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable
to loans made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement), and
(ii) such repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
-2-
2.09. 
At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank, refund
any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such amount to the
Loan Account for further withdrawals. Upon such refund, the repayment schedule shall
be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
2.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Department of External Resources
The Secretariat
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka
Telephone: 
Facsimile:
94 11 2484693 
94 11 2447633
94 11 2449823
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF SRI LANKA
By
uthorized Representative
Name: 
3. 
P 8 
asrAGQrQ
Title: 
Sec-raLr-V 
t--fis 
of
r 
aIronce a 
cCL Plonniond
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
R 
CWTTfS
Title: COUM TT 
D RQec-TOK.
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section 1. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers' decision dated November 29, 2013, on
Cabinet Paper No. 13/1524/548/009, has adopted a national policy and program on the
management of disasters (the "National DM Policy"), in accordance with Section 4(a) of
the Disaster Management Act.
2. 
The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers' 
decision dated January 3, 2014, on
Cabinet Paper No. 13/1829/548/012, has approved the National Disaster Management
Plan, aimed at ensuring preparedness for disasters and any other emergencies, risk
prevention, and the prevention and mitigation of disaster, and prepared and formulated by
the National Council for Disaster Management based on the National DM Policy, in
accordance with Sections 4(b) and (c) of the Disaster Management Act.
3. 
The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers' decision dated August 29, 2013 on
Cabinet Paper No. 13/1198/533/013, has approved the proposal to establish a steering
committee to monitor the national program for the common use and sharing of spatial
data and information.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal 
101,490,000
Tranche
(2) Front-end Fee 
510,000
(3) Fee payable pursuant to
Section 2.04 of this 
0
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
102,000,000
-6-
C. 
Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.04 of Agreement. 
If the Closing Date is
extended pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the Borrower elects to finance
from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no withdrawal shall be made from
the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of such fee.
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied, based on
evidence satisfactory to it, that a state of emergency exists in the Borrower's territory as a
result of a natural disaster, and which has been declared by the Borrower through a
Proclamation of the President, in accordance with the provisions of the Disaster
Management Act.
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a request
for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a review of the
Borrower's progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice
to the Borrower to that effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be
made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has notified the
Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of said Section 3.01, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank deternines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is May 31, 2017.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15:
Beginning May 15, 2017
through May 15, 2033 
1 
2.94%
On November 15, 2033 
2.98%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
-8-
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
1I 
"Cabinet of Ministers" means the Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers established pursuant
to the Borrower's Constitution.
2. 
"Disaster Management Act" means the Borrower's Disaster Management Act, No. 13, of
2005.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
-10-
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the 
"International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"National Council for Disaster Management" means the Borrower supreme council for
disaster management established and operating pursuant to the Disaster Management Act.
6. 
"National DM Policy" means the Borrower's national policy and program on the
management of disasters adopted pursuant to Section 4(a) of the Disaster Management
Act.
7. 
"National 
Disaster Management 
Plan" means the 
Borrower's national disaster
management plan prepared and formulated by the National Council for Disaster
Management based on the National DM Policy, in accordance with Sections 4(b) and (c)
of the Disaster Management Act.
8. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (a)
improve institutional mechanism for disaster risk management and financial protection;
(b) increase capacity to ensure climate resilient development; and (c) improve
understanding of disaster risk and set forth or referred to in the letter dated December 12,
2013 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the
Program during its execution.
-11-
9. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements, Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
-12-
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c) 
The term "Fixed Spread" is modified to read as follows:
"Fixed Spread" means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank's fixed spread for the
Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time,
on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per annum; provided,
that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to
Section 3.02 (e), that is applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the "Fixed Spread" means the
Bank's fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of
such amount; (b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for purposes
of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, "Fixed Spread" means the
Bank's fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington,
D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or
any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be
adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion
Guidelines.
(d) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
(e) 
The term "Variable Spread" is modified to read as follows:
"Variable Spread" means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: (1) the
Bank's standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington,
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted average
margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the Reference Rate, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions
thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on the
Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one
Currency, "Variable Spread" applies separately to each of such Currencies.
(f) 
A new term "Withdrawal" is added to read as follows:
-13-
"Withdrawal" means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.
(g) 
A new term "Withdrawal Date" is added to read as follows:
"Withdrawal Date" means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the Bank
pays the Withdrawal.
-14-
