OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF016327
Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement
(Ukraine District Heating Energy Efficiency Project)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
Dated 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF016327
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
,')/li 
A 
,2014, entered into between:
UKRAINE ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("World Bank" or "Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity
but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
("CTF").
WHEREAS: (A) 
The Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has requested the CTF
to assist in the financing of Part 1(b) of the Project;
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith (the IBRD Loan Agreement), the
World Bank has agreed to make a loan (the IBRD Loan) to the Borrower in the amount
of three hundred and thirty two million Dollars (USD 332,000,000) to assist in financing
Parts 1(a) and 2 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the IBRD Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million United States
Dollars ($50,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing Part 1(b) of the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of
the Standard Conditions, shall be equal to forty-five one-hundredth of one
percent (0.45%) of the Loan.
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through Minregion, shall cause Part 1 (b) of the Project to be
carried out by the respective Participating DH Companies (Project Implementing
Entities) in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard
Conditions and each Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through Minregion, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
-2-
of such Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
At least five Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower, through MOF and Minregion, and five Participating DH
Companies.
(b) 
The Project Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, has been finalized and adopted by Minregion and each Participating
DH Company.
(c) 
The IBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness and to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been satisfied or waived.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the five
Subsidiary Agreements referred to in Section 5.01(a) above have been duly
authorized or approved by the Borrower and the respective Project Implementing
Entities and 
are legally binding upon the Borrower and such Project
Implementing Entities in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
5.04. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties
hereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions. Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending
agreement.
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its Minister of Finance.
-3-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
Facsimile:
(380-44) 425-90-26
(380-44) 277-54-82
6.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
[NTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Kiev, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written.
UKRAINE
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
a 2 dk Ji i 1xYr a
/ r~
Title: 
bi ijZe72 ~ 
/n'u{
C,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the
Clean Technology Fund
By
Authorized Representative
Name: C9 
// 
n 
/, L
Title: 
t 
1 
/1
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the energy efficiency and quality of
service of selected Ukrainian district heating companies, improve their financial viability
and decrease their C02 emissions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Energy Efficiency Investments
Implementation of Energy Efficiency Investments specified in a Participating DH
Company's Investment Program, through the following interventions:
(a) Rehabilitation of boiler houses, closing of redundant boiler houses,
installation of small CHPs, replacement of network pipes with pre-insulated
pipes and installation of SCADA management systems, and related EEl
Implementation Costs.
(b) Installation of IHSs in residential buildings and installation of building-level
heat meters.
Part 2: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
Support to Minregion for Project management including for establishment of, and
training and technical assistance to, the CPMU, supervision of Project implementation,
guidance and training in project implementation, monitoring and evaluation to the
Participating DH Companies; carrying out of capacity building workshops to the
Participating DH Companies, carrying out sector-wide knowledge sharing and project
results dissemination workshops, carrying out of surveys among the Participating DH
Companies' customers; preparation of consolidated annual Project audits; preparation of
required studies related to the Project and financing of Incremental Operating Costs.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the procedures
set forth in the POM and shall ensure that the POM is not amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed and that no provision of the POM is waived, without prior
approval of the Bank.
(b) 
through Minregion, maintain the CPMU within Minregion, throughout
the duration of the Project, in a form and with functions, staffing, (under terms of
reference, qualifications and scope of responsibilities) and adequate resources, all
satisfactory to the Bank and as further set forth in the POM; the CPMU shall be
responsible for supervision of Project implementation, including the overall
supervision of implementation of Energy 
Efficiency 
Investments of a
Participating DH Company under Part I of the Project, for data collection,
preparation of consolidated Project reports and financial reports, providing
support to PIUs on all financial management, procurement and environmental
and social compliance matters, monitoring environmental and social aspects of
Project implementation, and general oversight of and coordination between the
Participating DH Companies.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of each Participating DH Company's Respective
Part of the Project under Part 1 (b) of the Project, namely in each Participating
DH Company's case the Participating DH Company's Investment Program's
Energy Efficiency Investments falling within Part 1(b) of the Project, the
Borrower, through MOF, shall make the respective part of the proceeds of the
Loan available to each Participating DH Company under a Subsidiary
Agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall
include the following:
(a) 
The principal amount of the Loan made available under the Subsidiary
Agreement ("Subsidiary Loan") shall be: (i) in an amount equivalent to
the Energy 
Efficiency 
Investments 
under the 
Participating 
DH
Company's Investment Program to be supported by Part 1(b) of the
Project, as reflected for the relevant Participating DH Company in
Category I of the table set forth in Section IV. A. 2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such amounts may be adjusted from time to time with the
prior consent of the Bank upon the request of the Borrower; (ii)
-7-
denominated and repayable in Dollars; (iii) charged interest on the
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate
applicable to the Loan from time to time under Section 2.05 of this
Agreement, and charged a fee, to be deducted from the Subsidiary Loan
principal amount, at a rate that equals the rate applied to the Loan under
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and charged a fee of 0.01 percent on the
amount of the Subsidiary Loan principal amount; and (iv) repayable over
a period not exceeding the maturity of the Loan, inclusive of a grace
period not exceeding 10 years.
(b) 
The Participating DH Company shall be responsible for implementing its
Energy Efficiency Investments in accordance with the POM, PLESA,
including the RPF, and shall maintain its PIU throughout the duration of
the Project for this purpose, in a form and with functions, staffing, (under
terms of reference, qualifications and scope of responsibilities) and
adequate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank and as further set forth in
the POM. The Participating DH Company shall not amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the POM without prior
approval of the Bank.
(c) 
The Participating DH Company shall submit, each year, its annual
Investment Program to such Borrower agency or agencies as required
pursuant to the Borrower's applicable legislation, for approval by such
agency or agencies.
(d) 
The Participating DH Company shall obtain any necessary legal or
administrative permissions, licenses, permits, usage rights, authorizations
and any other consents as may be required for the implementation and
maintenance of the Energy Efficiency Investments under the Borrower's
legal framework.
(e) 
The Participating DH Company shall comply with the financial
covenants and all other provisions set forth in its respective Project
Agreement and its respective Subsidiary Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOF and Minregion, shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all
necessary measures to establish tariffs in the district heating sector at a level that
will ensure that each Participating DH Company shall be able to produce for each
of its fiscal years, during Project implementation, after its fiscal year ending on
-8-
December 31, 2016, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its (i)
total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt service requirements
exceed the provision for depreciation; for purposes of this Section I.B.3, the
terms "total revenues", and "total operating expenses" and other terms used in
this Section shall have the meanings set forth in the Participating DH Company's
Project Agreement.
(b) 
If the Borrower has failed to comply with paragraph (a) above, the Bank
may, without limitation to Article VII of the Standard Conditions, in its sole
discretion, reallocate the amounts of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance allocated to a
non-performing Participating DH Company to another Participating DH Company.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall ensure, and cause each Participating DH
Company to ensure, that the Project is carried out in accordance with the PLESA,
including the RPF, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any
provision of the PLESA, including the RPF, without prior written approval of the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall: (a) prior to the commencement of any
works for Energy Efficiency Investments on each proposed site, submit to the
Bank for its approval (i) the proposed site for said measures and the related site-
specific EMP or checklist and/or, if required pursuant to the RPF, a RAP, said
site-specific plan or checklist or RAP to be prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the PLESA (including the RPF) and in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and to be duly included in the proposed contracts for
said measures; (ii) 
evidence that such EMP or checklist and/or RAP, as
applicable, has been disclosed locally and that adequate and meaningful
consultations have been carried out on said EMP, checklist and/or RAP, as
applicable; and (b) ensure that such measures are carried out in accordance with
the EMP and/or RAP, as applicable.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1 .
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to
-9-
the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
quarter, and shall be furnished to the World Bank and the Borrower's Ministry
of Economic Development and Trade not later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall prepare the Completion Report in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall ensure that a financial management
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the
Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through Minregion, shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project
Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall have its Financial Statements for the
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the
Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6)
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
- 10-
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: 
(a) Shopping; (b) Direct
Contracting; and (c) National Competitive Bidding , subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost
Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Single-source
Selection of consulting firms; (e) Procedures for the Selection of Individual
Consultants; and (f) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual
Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
I. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall:
(a) 
No later than December 31 of every year during the implementation of
the Project, beginning on December 31, 2015, prepare and furnish to the
- 11 -
Bank a procurement progress report (Procurement Progress Report), in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia: (i) a description of issues arising during the full procurement cycle
under the Project, from design through planning, bidding, contract
implementation and completion; (ii) a list of proposed measures and
actions to be taken to resolve the issues identified under (i) above; and
(iii) a proposed timeline for the implementation of the said measures and
actions.
(b) 
No later than January 31 of every year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on January 31, 2016, exchange views with the Bank
on the results of the Procurement Progress Report completed for the
Borrower's previous calendar year and thereafter implement such
recommended measures, as agreed with the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
- 12-
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
(expressed in 
(inclusive of
USD) 
Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, works, non-consulting services, 
100%
and consultants' services and EEl
Implementation Costs for Part I (b) of the
Project:
i. Public Power-generating Utility 
4,755,000
"Chernihivska Teploelektrotcentral" of
Limited Liability Company Firm
"TehNova"
ii. 
Public Utility "Dniproteploenerho" of 
4,755,000
Dnipropetrovsk Oblast' Council
iii. Public Commercial Utility 
4,755,000
"Donetskmiskteplomerezha"
iv. State Municipal Utility "Ivano- 
0
Frankivskteplokomunenerho"
v. Public Utility "Kharkivski Teplovi Merezhi" 
10,755,000
vi. Municipal Public Utility 
1,640,000
"Khersonteploenerho"
vii.Subsidiary Enterprise "Kirovohradteplo" of 
4,755,000
Limited Liability Company "Center of
Scientific and Technical Innovations of
Ukrainian Oil and Gas Academy"
viii.Public Utility "Miskteplovodenerhia" of 
1,990,000
Kamianets-Podilskyi City Council
ix. Oblast' Public Utility 
2,370,000
"Mykolaivoblteploenerho"
x. Public Utility of Vinnytsia City Council 
6,720,000
"Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho"
(2) 
Management Fee 
225,000 
Amount payable
pursuant 
to
Section 
2.04 of
this Agreement in
accordance 
with
Section 4.01 (a)
of the Standard
Conditions
(3) Unallocated 
7,280,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50.000,000
- 13 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
under Category (1) for each withdrawal to a Participating DH Company,
unless the Subsidiary Agreement related to the relevant Participating DH
Company has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through MOF
and Minregion, and the relevant Participating DH Company, and a legal
opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, has been provided by counsel
acceptable to the Bank, confirming that such Subsidiary Agreement has
been duly authorized or approved by the Borrower and such Participating
DH Company and is legally binding upon the Borrower and such
Participating DH Company in accordance with its terms.
1. 
The Closing Date is October 30, 2020.
- 14-
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding
The procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the
Open Tender Procedure set forth in the Law on Public Procurement No. II 97-VII, dated
April 10, 2014 and amendments thereto, provided, however, that such procedure shall be
subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the "Guidelines for
Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 2011) 
(the "Procurement
Guidelines") and the following additional provisions:
(i) 
Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Bank, shall be used.
(ii) 
The eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement process and to be
awarded a Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be
declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than
those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
(iii) 
After the public opening of the bids, information relating to the examination,
clarification, and evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards
shall not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned
with this process until the publication of the contract award notice.
(iv) 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents.
Qualification shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis, and merit points
shall not be used. Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the bidder's
or prospective bidder's capability and resources to effectively perform the
contract, taking into account objective and measurable factors, including: (i)
relevant general and specific experience, and satisfactory past performance
and successful completion of similar contracts over a given period; (ii)
financial position; and where relevant (iii) capability of construction and/or
manufacturing facilities. The availability of equipment, material and
technical basis, including owning production facilities and/or service centers
within the territory of Ukraine shall not be required as part of qualification
requirements.
- 15 -
(v) 
Government-owned enterprises are eligible to bid only if they (i) are legally
and financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are
not dependent agencies of Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
(vi) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the evaluation criteria
specified in the bidding documents. Evaluation criteria other than price shall
be quantified in monetary terms. Merit points shall not be used, and no
minimum point or percentage value shall be assigned to the significance of
price, in bid evaluation.
(vii) 
If required, bid security amount shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the
estimated cost of the contract.
(viii) 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors/suppliers without a
suitable advance payment security.
(ix) 
No domestic preference shall be granted in bid evaluation on the basis of
bidder nationality, origin of goods or services, and/or preferential programs.
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been
determined: (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents, and
(ii) to offer the lowest-evaluated cost. A bidder shall not be eliminated from
detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantial deviations.
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's
estimate or budget allocation ceiling without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(xi) 
All bids (including in the case when less than two bids are received) shall not
be rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids
shall not be solicited without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(xii) 
Restrictions to the contract amendments, as contemplated under Article 40 of
the PPL will not apply. With respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior
review, the Borrower shall obtain the Bank's no objection before agreeing to:
(a) a material extension of the stipulated time for performance of a contract;
(b) any substantial modification of the scope of services or other significant
changes to the terms and conditions of the contract; (c) any variation order or
amendment which, singly or combined with all variation orders or
amendments previously issued, increases the original contract amount by
more than 15 percent; or (d) the proposed termination of the contract. A
copy of all contract amendments shall be provided to the Bank.
(xiii) 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the Bank shall
include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals,
found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the Procurement
Guidelines.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract financed out of the proceeds of the Bank financing shall provide that
bidders, suppliers, contractors and their subcontractors, agents, personnel,
- 16-
consultants, service providers, or suppliers to permit the Bank to inspect all
accounts, records and other documents relating to the bid submission and
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by
auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede the
exercise of the Bank's inspection and audit rights provided for in the
Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the
Guidelines.
- 17-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the
Loan repayable
(expressed as a
percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 
5%
2024 to and including December 15, 2033:
- 18 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"CHP" means a combined heat and power plant.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
5. 
"CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit within Minregion,
established pursuant to Minregion's Order Number #558 of November 27, 2013
and referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" 
or "EMP" 
means 
any site-specific
environmental management plan, prepared in accordance with the PLESA and
the provisions of Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to
the Bank, and giving details the specific actions, measures and policies designed
to facilitate the achievement of the objective of the PLESA, setting forth the
mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of an Energy Efficiency Investment to offset or
reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank, including
the budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, along with the institutional
and procedural measures needed to implement such actions, measures and
policies.
7. 
"EEl Implementation Costs" means a Participating DH Company's PIU's
reasonable operational costs related to implementation of the Energy Efficiency
Investments financed under the Loan, including on account of vehicle rental;
miscellaneous utilities; stationary and office supplies and equipment; operation,
maintenance and spare parts of equipment; consumables; transportation; local
travel; communication and advertisement costs; salaries of PIU staff, but
excluding consultants' 
services and salaries or honoraria of officials and
employees of the Borrower's civil services, as such costs are included in the
budget of a Participating DH Company's Investment Program and agreed with
the Bank.
-19-
8. 
"Energy Efficiency Investments" means a Participating DH Company's selected
energy efficiency investments at selected sites, included and specified in such
Participating DH Company's Investment Program, and selected in accordance
with the criteria and mechanisms set forth in the POM.
9. 
"IHS" mean an individual building-level heat sub-station.
10. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the CPMU's reasonable and necessary
incremental expenditures related to the management and implementation of the
Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank, including on
account of vehicle rental; miscellaneous utilities; stationary and office supplies
and equipment; operation, 
maintenance 
and spare parts 
of equipment;
consumables; transportation; local travel; communication and advertisement
costs;, but excluding consultants' services and salaries or honoraria of officials
and employees of the Borrower's civil services.
11. 
"Investment Program" means a program setting forth a variety of measures,
approved by such Borrower agency or agencies and in accordance with such
appropriate procedures as required pursuant to the Borrower's applicable
legislation, to improve reliability and assure efficiency of a district heating
system, and including obligations of a Participating DH Company on (i)
construction, renovation, 
rehabilitation, modernization of assets; and (ii)
improvement of the quality of service, 
including necessary calculations and
substantiations as well as identifying sources of financing and implementation
schedules, and acceptable to the Bank.
12. 
"Ministry of Finance" or "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
includes any successor thereto.
13. 
"Minregion" means the Borrower's Ministry of Regional Development, Building
and Communal Services and includes any successor thereto.
14. 
"Participating DH Company" means each of the following district heating
companies 
(a) 
Public 
Power-generating 
Utility 
"Chernihivska
Teploelektrotcentral" 
of Limited 
Liability 
Company 
From 
"TehNova",
established and operating pursuant to the Chernihivska Teploelektrotcentral
Legislation; (b) Public Utility "Dniproteploenerho", of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast
Council, 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the Dniproteploenerho
Legislation; 
(c) 
Public 
Commercial 
Utility 
"Donetskmiskteplomerezha",
established and operating pursuant to the Donetskmiskteplomerezha Legislation;
(d) State Municipal Utility "Ivano-Frankivskteplokomunenerho", established and
operating pursuant to the Ivano-Frankivskteplokomunenerho Legislation; (e)
Public Utility "Kharkivski Teplovi Merezhi", established and operating pursuant
to the Kharkiv Teplovi Merezhi Legislation; (f) Municipal Public Utility
Khersonteploenerho, 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the
- 20 -
Khersonteploenerho Legislation; (g) Subsidiary Enterprise "Kirovohradteplo" of
Limited Liability Company "Center of Scientific and Technical Innovations of
Ukrainian Oil and Gas Academy" established and operating pursuant to the
Kirovohradteplo 
Legislation; (h) Public Utility "Miskteplovodenerhia" 
of
Kamianets-Podilskyi City Council, established and operating pursuant to the
Miskteplovodenerhia 
Legislation, 
(i) 
Oblast 
Public 
Utility
"Mykolaivoblteploenerho", 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the
Mykolaivoblteploenerho Legislation; and () Public Utility of Vinnytsia City
Council "Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho", established and operating pursuant to the
Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho Legislation.
15. 
"PIU" means a Participating DH Company's project implementation unit and
referred to in Section I.B. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"PLESA" means the program level environmental and social assessment
(including the RPF) prepared by the Borrower, through Minregion, for the
Project dated November 21, 2013, being the framework setting forth the
modalities for site-specific environmental screening and procedures/actions for the
preparation and implementation of environmental assessments and EMPs under the
Project, setting forth the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures
and procedures required under the Project, in order to eliminate adverse
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels, as well as actions needed to implement said measures, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"POM" or "Project Operational Manual" means the operational manual adopted
by Minregion, and each Participating DH Company and referred to in Section
I.A.1(a) and I.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the
operational requirements, criteria, institutional arrangements and operational
procedures for the implementation of the Project, including, inter alia,
procurement, 
financial 
management, 
disbursement, 
accounting, 
audit,
environmental and social safeguards requirements, monitoring and evaluation
arrangements, as amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 4, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
20. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means a Participating DH Company.
- 21 -
21. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means each of the following: (a)
Articles of Agreement approved by Protocol of General Shareholders'
Meeting of October 14, 2013 pursuant to which Public Power-generating
Utility "Chernihivska Teploelektrotcentral" of Limited Liability Company
Firm 
"TehNova" 
was 
established 
and 
operating 
(Chernihivska
Teploelektrotcentral Legislation); (b) Decision of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast
Council No. 661-22/y, dated December 18, 2009, pursuant to which Public
Utility 
"Dniproteploenerho" of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast' 
Council 
was
established and is operating (Dniproteploenerho Legislation); (c) Charter
approved by Decree of Head of Donetsk City Council No. 1216, dated
September 
17, 2008 
pursuant to which Public 
Commercial Utility
"Donetskmiskteplomerezha", 
was 
established 
and 
operating
(Donetskmiskteplomerezha Legislation); (d) Charter approved by Decision
of Ivano-Frankivsk City Council No. VII, dated September 12, 2006,
pursuant 
to 
which 
Ivano- 
State 
Municipal 
Utility 
"Ivano-
Frankivskteplokomunenerho", was established and is operating (Ivano-
Frankivskteplokomunenerho Legislation); (e) Charter approved by Decision
of Kharkiv City Council No. 952, dated September 30, 2003, pursuant to
which Public Utility "Kharkivski Teplovi Merezhi" was established and is
operating (Kharkiv Teplovi Merezhi Legislation); (f) Charter approved by
Decision of Kherson City Council No. 506 dated December 28, 2011,
pursuant to which Municipal Public Utility "Khersonteploenerho" was
established and is operating (Khersonteploenerho Legislation); (g) Articles of
Agreement approved by Protocol of General Meeting No. 20, dated
September 
28, 
2004 
pursuant 
to 
which 
Subsidiary 
Enterprise
"Kirovohradteplo" of Limited Liability Company "Center of Scientific and
Technical Innovations of Ukrainian Oil and Gas Academy" was established
and is operating (Kirovohradteplo Legislation); (h) Charter approved by
Decision of Kamyanets-Podilskyi 
City Council executive 
committee
No. 613, dated 
May 
16, 
2013, pursuant to which 
Public Utility
"Miskteplovodenerhia" of Kamianets-Podilskyi City Council was established
and is operating (Miskteplovodenerhia Legislation), (i) Charter approved by
Head of Mykolaiv Regional Administration, dated November 03, 2006,
pursuant to which Oblast' Public Utility "Mykolaivoblteploenerho" was
established and is operating (Mykolaivoblteploenerho Legislation); and
(J) Decision of Vinnytsia City Council No. 905, dated August 31, 2012,
pursuant 
to 
which 
Public 
Utility 
of 
Vinnytsia 
City 
Council
"Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho" 
was 
established 
and 
is 
operating
(Vinnytsiamiskteploenerho Legislation).
22. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means each site-specific plan relating to
land acquisition and/or resettlement or economic displacement of Project-
affected persons, as the case may be, prepared under the Project in accordance
with the Resettlement Policy Framework and the provisions of Section I.D.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank.
- 22 -
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework document
adopted by the Borrower, through Minregion, and each Participating DH
Company dated November 21, 2013, attached as an Annex to the PLESA and
describing the process and procedures to be taken, the plans to be prepared, and
the mitigation and compensation measures, and consultation and information
processes to be followed in the event of land acquisition or resettlement or
economic displacement of persons affected by the Project as a result of
implementation of the Project.
24. 
"SCADA" means a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system of
hardware and software, monitoring and control generation, transmission and
distribution of heat of a district heating system.
25. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.
26. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means each agreement between MOF, Minregion, and
each Participating DH Company, referred to in Section I.B.1 and 2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the respective
proceeds of the Loan available to each Participating DH Company.
27. 
"Training" means Project-related training, and includes Project related study
tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, not
included under service providers' contracts, including costs of training materials,
space and equipment rental, reasonable and necessary local and international
travel 
by 
participants 
in 
training 
activities, 
reasonable 
lodging 
and
accommodation, subsistence and local and international per diem of trainees and
trainers, registration, tuition and facilitators' fees, translation and interpretation,
and other training related miscellaneous costs, all based on budgets acceptable to
the Bank.
- 23 -
