OFFICIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8291-RU
Loan Agreement
(Second National Hydromet Modernization Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
1 
1QY 
A, 
.2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8291-RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
( 
ctrj, 
VIL 
-
2014, between
the RUSSIAN FEDERATION ("Borrower') and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million United States Dollars
(US$60,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to LIBOR (or such other Reference Rate iradordance with paragraph 82
of the Appendix of the General Conditions and Section 3.02(c) of the General
Conditions) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to.the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through Roshydromet with the
assistance of BEA, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV- 
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
BEA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Agency
Agreement
(b) 
The Agency Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of any of the parties of the
Agency Agreement to carry out the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely: any
event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs
and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Management Committee has adopted the Project Operations
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
The Agency Agreement has been entered into between the Ministry of
Finance (as representative of the Borrower), Roshydromet and BEA in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Section LA of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Agency
Agreement has been duly authorized by the Ministry of Finance (as
representative of the Borrower), Roshydromet and BEA and is legally binding
upon the Ministry of Finance (as representative of the Borrower), Roshydromet
and BEA in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement or such later date as may be established by the Bank
pursuant to Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance or authorized Deputy
Minister of Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation
Ilyinka Street 9
109097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex: 
Facsimile:
112008 
(7-495) 925-0889
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
A ) 
I exaveY 
Fr 1OV
Title: -HeJ 
-4 
Fe- A 
U 
rvce. 
r
Hyolromeeorolo 1 
cwd Emvironhiw4d
moniltorlk 
c4-th TwaKFdwE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:.1
A 
iedRepresentative
Name 
ich6l RLkowS;
Title: 
Co10 
D' reA-ov-
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to further enhance its
national capacity to deliver reliable and timely weather, hydrological and climate
information to the Russian public and economic sector and to enhance its capacity to
integrate into the global system of meteorological services.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Strengthening 
Information 
Communication 
Technology 
(ICT)
infrastructure and systems delivering weather, climate and hydrological
data and information
Strengthening of Roshydromet's ICT infrastructure and technical capabilities,
inter alia, by carrying out the following:
I. 
Improve RosHydroment's technical capacity for operational hydrometeorological
forecasting and research on climate and climate change, inter alia, through provision of a
supercomputer with capacity over 500TFlops, associated engineering and operational
support to Roshydromet's main computing center and training to Roshydromet staff.
2. 
Develop regional data storage and archive systems for improved operational user
access to Roshydromet's information resources, inter alia, through investments in
modernization of servers and communication infrastructure, databases, and scanning and
data input equipment in selected Roshydromet organizations.
3. 
Improve Roshydromet's integrated information and telecommunication system to
facilitate prompt access of Roshydromet's internal and external users to Roshydromet's
data and information products, inter alia, through modernization of communication of the
sub-system of selected Roshydromet organizations and upgrading of the data collection
and dissemination sub-system which integrates data from state observation networks into
a unified Roshydromet information system.
Part B. 
Modernization of observation networks
Modernization of equipment and technologies of key elements of Roshydromet's
observation networks and integrated modernization of the hydrological network in the
Volga River Basin, inter alia, by carrying out the following:
1. 
Improve meteorological, agrometeorological and marine hydrometeorological
observation networks and increase reliability of operations and a number of automatically
measured parameters through the following:
(a) 
replacement of obsolete equipment, and addition of new equipment, in
-7-
weather stations located in selected priority regions or in selected priority stations and
supply mobile and stationary calibration laboratories for basic meteorological networks;
(b) 
investments in modernization of the agrometeorological network,
including installing automatic instruments to measure the parameters of water and heat
balance at key soil and agro-climatic sites and supplying mobile agrometeorological
laboratories in selected pilot areas; and
(c) 
modernization of the marine hydrometeorological network, including
installation of automated equipment at marine coastal stations.
2. 
Improve the upper air observation network through: (a) installation of modem
upper air complexes (including in remote locations); (b) replacement of obsolete and
polluting hydrogen generation technology with modem automatic gas generators in upper
air stations; and (c) strengthening of remote sensing instruments and techniques by
introducing temperature and wind profilers.
3. 
Upgrade the regional operational forecasting units to strengthen the satellite data
reception capability of selected Roshydromet organizations through, inter alia,
installation of satellite data receiving systems.
4. 
Modernize the hydrological network and improvement of reliability of
hydrological forecasts and flooding and techniques for seasonal water flow by: (a)
installation of automatic instruments and modem communication and engineering
equipment at hydrological stations; (b) supplying mobile hydrological laboratories and
calibration laboratories; and (c) upgrading of the whole system of hydrological data
collection, storage, and processing and provision of information products, including data
on water cadastre.
Part C. 
Institutional and regulatory strengthening, improvement of service
delivery to clients and better preparedness for emergencies
Improvement of Roshydromet's service delivery performance in line with
international experience, inter alia, by carrying out the following:
I. 
Strengthen the institutional capacity of Roshydromet by: (a) improving its
performance including, updating a set of regulatory and technical documents and
standard 
operational 
procedures; 
(b) strengthening 
its 
sustainability, 
including
development of new approaches to life-cycle management of equipment and material
assets; and (c) upgrading of regional training and distance learning centers, training of
staff and carrying out of selected study tours.
-8-
2. 
Improve Roshydromet's service delivery by reducing the gap between user needs
and delivery of services to users, including carrying out sociological surveys and mass
media relations activities, and preparation of professional advertisements of Roshydromet
activities.
3. 
Improve 
the 
emergency 
preparedness 
system 
related 
to 
dangerous
hydrometeorological events and public safety by: (a) provision of support for improved
interaction among federal 
and territorial bodies responsible for public safety;
(b) development and operationalization of information products related to emergencies;
and (c) investments in stationary and mobile hydrometeorological situational centers and
their deployment in the regions to increase region's preparedness for emergencies and for
coordinated mitigation measures.
4. 
Strengthen Roshydromet's scientific and research potential on a range of
operational themes aligned with modernization priorities including, provision of on-the-
job-training of scientists and specialists from Roshydromet institutes and operational
units and applied research internships in leading national meteorological services and
international research centers.
Part D. 
Project Management
Provision of consultants' services (including services of a systems integrator and
services for translation of Project documents and audit of Project costs), provision of
equipment to be used by BEA and financing of Operating Costs, all in relation to
management of Project implementation.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section L 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1I 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower, through
Roshydromet, shall maintain and cause to be maintained:
(a) 
The 
Project 
Management 
Committee, 
responsible 
for 
overall
coordination, strategies and day to day management of Project
implementation and comprising the Chairman of Committee (the Head of
RHM), two Deputy Chairmen, the Chairman of Project Expert
Committee, two (2) representatives from the Ministry of Finance, two (2)
representatives from the Ministry of Economic Development, one (1)
representative from the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
and one (1) representative from BEA.
(b) 
BEA, responsible for provision of day-to-day Project implementation
support to Roshydromet and with the organization structure and
functional responsibilities set out in the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, shall: (a) together with
Roshydromet, enter into an Agency Agreement with BEA, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for provision of day-to-day support for the
implementation of the Project, which terms and conditions shall include
compliance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Project Operations
Manual; and (b) at all times throughout the duration of the Project, perform its
obligations under the Agency Agreement and cause all parties to the Agency
Agreement to perform their respective obligations thereunder.
3. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
cause BEA, for purposes of guiding Project implementation, to develop a
Project Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank setting out, inter alia:
(i) 
policies and procedures relating to Project implementation;
(ii) 
financial management policies, 
requirements 
and 
detailed
procedures consistent with the provisions of Section II.B of this
Schedule 2;
-10-
(iii) 
guidelines and procedures for procurement consistent with the
provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2; and
(b) 
cause Roshydromet and BEA, to carry out the Project in a timely manner
and in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual;
and
(c) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived said manual or
any provisions thereof, except with the prior written approval of the
Bank.
4. 
With respect to Part D of the Project, the Borrower, through Roshydromet, shall
have in place within ninety (90) days from the Effective Date, a systems
integrator with: (a) experience in advanced technological modernization of
hydrometeorogical observation systems and information, communication and
computing technologies; and 
(b) terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
which systems integrator will assist the Borrower in integration, operability and
implementation of all elements of the modernized systems of Roshydromet.
B. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations be made in the
Borrower's budget for the Borrower's counterpart contribution to the costs of the
Project.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall, through BEA, monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall,
through BEA, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through BEA, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal
year of the Borrower, provided that the first and last audit periods may, with the
agreement of the Bank, cover a period of up to eighteen (18) months. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
- 12-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consulting services
for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Shopping
(b) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services for those contracts which
are specified in the Procurement Plan.
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection based on Consultant's Qualification
(e) 
Single-source Selection
(f) 
Individual Consultant
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Procurement of Training
Training shall be procured in accordance with agreed procedures set out in the
Project Operations Manual.
- 13-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants' 
57,894,720 
43%
services, and Training
(2) Operating Costs 
2,105,280 
43%
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2018 
3.85%
through October 15, 2030
On April 15, 2031 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
- 15-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between MOF (as
representative of the Borrower), Roshydromet and BEA pursuant to paragraph 2
of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and referred to in Section 5.01(b)
of this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"BEA" means the Bureau of Economic Analysis, an autonomous non-
commercial legal entity: established in the form of a foundation pursuant to the
law of the Borrower on non-commercial entities; operating in accordance with its
founders' agreement and Statutes registered with the Ministry of Justice of the
Borrower on August 9, 1996 (Ministry of Justice Certificate of Registration No.
UR-31); and authorized to implement the Project pursuant to the Agency
Agreement.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans" dated March 12, 2012.
7. 
"Ministry of Finance" and the acronym "MOF" mean the Ministry of Finance of
the Russian Federation or any successor thereto.
8. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental costs incurred by BEA in
relation to Project implementation, including: staff salaries, social charges,
training, office rent and utilities, transportation, maintenance and minor
refurbishing of office and equipment, materials and supplies, communication
costs, support for information systems, bank charges, and cost of travel,
accommodation, 
and per diem of BEA staff directly associated with
implementation of Project activities;
9. 
"Project Management Committee" means the committee responsible for overall
coordination, strategies and day to day management of Project implementation
and established pursuant to an Order issued by Roshydromet and referred to in
paragraph 1(a) of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
- 17-
10. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual to be prepared pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be adopted by
the Project Management Committee pursuant to Section 5.01(a) of this
Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the approval
of the Bank.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated March 2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
13. 
"Roshydromet" and "RHM" mean the Borrower's 
Federal Service for
Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring or any successor thereto.
14. 
"Training" means expenditures for Project-related study tours, training courses,
seminars, workshops and other training activities (which are not included under
goods, non-consulting and consultants' services), including costs of travel,
accommodation and subsistence costs for the representatives of Roshydromet and
other relevant bodies on the federal and/or regional levels involved in the
implementation of the Project.
