OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8395-TN
Loan Agreement
(Additional Loan for the Urban Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
Dated 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8395-TN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
, 
2014, 
entered 
into 
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and
SOCIETE NATIONALE 
D'EXPLOITATION 
ET 
DE 
DISTRIBUTION 
DES 
EAUX
("Borrower") for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank and the Borrower
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of nineteen million Euro (E19,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Chief Executive Officer (Prdsident Directeur
Gindral).
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
Avenue Sliman Ben Slimane
El-Manar
Tunis - 2092
Republic of Tunisia
Facsimile:
216.71.871.000
-3-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington,D&C 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
,I 
as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIO 
NK FOR
RECONS 
CTION A D DE 
ENT
By
orized Representative
Name:L
Title:
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
~D1~9k
-4-
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) ensure the continuity of water service (twenty four
(24) hours per day, seven (7) days a week) to the population in Greater Tunis and other targeted
cities; and (ii) improve the financial viability of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improvements to the Greater Tunis Water Supply System
Carrying out civil works and acquisition of equipment to strengthen the Greater Tunis Region
water supply system through the following:
I. 
capacity expansion of the new water treatment unit at the water treatment plant in
Ghdir-El-Golla; and
2. 
rehabilitation and upgrade of the water treatment plant in Ghdir-El-Golla,
including the two (2) older water treatment units.
Part B: Improvements to Water Supply Systems in Urban Centers of the Eastern Region
Carrying out civil works and acquisition of equipment to rehabilitate and upgrade the water
treatment plant at Belli, serving cities on the Eastern coastline.
Part C: Manazement Capacity Building
Strengthening the Borrower's financial situation through the acquisition and installation of 70,000
customer meters.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, maintain the PIU under terms
of reference and with a composition satisfactory to the Bank. The PIU shall be
responsible for overall Project oversight, supervision, monitoring, and coordination,
including managing environmental and social safeguards matters. The Borrower shall
ensure that the PIU is at all times: (i) staffed with key personnel to carry out its
operations, including a Director who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the
PIU; engineers; and specialists in financial management, environmental and social
management, and procurement; and (ii) provided with adequate resources and suitably
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(i) 
its Directorate for Engineering Studies is vested with the responsibility of
preparing and supervising the preparation of the infrastructure designs associated
with Parts A and B of the Project;
(ii) 
its Directorate of Construction is vested with the responsibility of carrying out
the civil works under Parts A and B of the Project; and
(iii) 
its Directorate of Operations is vested with the responsibility of the carrying out
of activities under Part C of the Project.
B. 
Operations Manual
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not revise, amend abrogate,
repeal or waive said Operations Manual, or any provision thereof.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that Parts A and B of the Project are implemented in
accordance with the EA and the EMPs; and (ii) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive any provision of the EA or of the EMPs, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate information on the implementation of the EA
and the EMPs is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in Paragraph A,
Section II of this Schedule 2, including information on:
-6-
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such assessments and plans;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such assessments and plans; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. In addition, the Borrower shall
have its general financial statements (the "General Financial Statements") prepared in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, and
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of the Financial Statements
and the General Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements and the audited General Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the end of such period, and shall be made publicly available in a timely
fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-7-
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections I and III of the Procurement Guidelines.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Limited International Bidding;
(b) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions:
(i) 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall
be declared ineligible for reasons other than those provided in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines.
(ii) 
No foreign bidder shall be required to submit a bid in association with
domestic firms as a condition for bidding.
(iii) 
The bidding documents shall clearly set out the bid evaluation process,
the award criteria and the bidders' qualification criteria.
(iv) 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised with not less than thirty (30)
days for bid preparation.
(v) 
Technical and financial bids are always publicly and simultaneously
opened, and such public bid opening shall take place immediately or
closely after the deadline for submission of bids. No evaluation of bids
shall take place at the bid public opening session.
(vi) 
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding document
to be used under National Competitive Bidding must be submitted to,
and found acceptable by the Bank.
(vii) 
The procedures shall include publication of evaluation results and of the
details of the contract awarded.
(viii) 
Bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria disclosed in
the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms, and no
domestic preference or any other kind of preferential treatment for
national companies or for goods of national origin shall be applied. The
-8-
verification of the compliance of bids to the technical requirements set
forth in the bidding documents shall not be limited to the technical offer
of the bidder which has offered the lowest price.
(ix) 
The contract shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted
the lowest evaluated responsive bid, and no negotiation shall take place.
(x) 
Each bidding document and contract shall include provisions stating the
World Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals which have
engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the Procurement
Guidelines as well as the Bank's right to inspection and audit.
(c) 
Shopping; and
(d) 
Direct Contracting.
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in Euro) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and non- 
10,000,000 
100%
consulting 
services 
for
Parts A.1 and C of the
Project
(2) Goods, works and non- 
5,300,000 
100%
consulting 
services 
for
Part A.2 of the Project
-9-
(3) Goods, works and non- 
3,200,000 
100%
consulting services 
for
Part B of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
47,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(5) Unallocated 
452,500
TOTAL AMOUNT 
19,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
under Category (2), unless an EMP, satisfactory to the Bank, covering activities
to be carried out by the Borrower under Part A.2 of the Project, shall have been
adopted by the Borrower, published by the Borrower on its website and
submitted by the Borrower to the Bank for publication at the Infoshop; or
(c) 
under Category (3), unless an EMP, satisfactory to the Bank, covering activities
to be carried out by the Borrower under Part B of the Project, shall have been
adopted by the Borrower, published by the Borrower on its website and
submitted by the Borrower to the Bank for publication at the Infoshop.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2018.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings: Financial Ratio
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain for each of
its fiscal years, a ratio of total operating revenues to total operating expenses
minus depreciation plus interest charges, equal to or higher than one hundred
percent (100 %).
(b) 
Before July 31 of each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion.
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures, including, without
- 10 -
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates, in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) 
The term "total operating expenses minus depreciation plus interest
charges" 
means 
all 
expenses 
related 
to 
operations, 
including
administration, 
and adequate 
maintenance, 
minus 
provision 
for
depreciation as recorded in the Borrower's audited General Financial
Statements (as defined in Section II.B.3 of this Schedule 2), and
including interest charges.
(ii) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources
related to operations.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September15
Beginning September 15, 2020 
4.17%
through September 15, 2031
On March 15, 2032 
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
- 12 -
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 13 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"EA" means the Environment Assessment prepared and adopted by the Borrower,
disclosed on April 4, 2014, and satisfactory to the Bank, evaluating the environmental
impact of Parts A and B of the Project, and setting forth, through the EMP, the
mitigating, compensating and monitoring measures for Parts A and B of the Project, as
such Assessment may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
4. 
"EMP" means (a) the Environmental Management Plan for Part A.1 of the Project,
embedded in the EA, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the
Bank, which sets forth environmental and other mitigation measures, staffing and budget
for implementing such measures, monitoring and supervision of the execution of such
measures, and capacity building activities, with the objective to offset, mitigate, reduce
and/or compensate for the negative impacts and to enhance the positive impacts of Part
A. 1 of the Project, as such Plan may be amended from time to time with the prior
approval of the Bank; and (b) the Environmental Management Plan for Part A.2 of the
Project and the Environmental Management Plan for Part B of the Project, to be prepared,
adopted and disclosed by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, which shall set forth
environmental and other mitigation measures, staffing and budget for implementing such
measures, monitoring and supervision of the execution of such measures, and capacity
building activities, with the objective to offset, mitigate, reduce and/or compensate for
the negative impacts and to enhance the positive impacts of Part A.2 of the Project and of
Part B of the Project, respectively, as such Plans may be amended from time to time with
the prior approval of the Bank.
5. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
6. 
"Greater Tunis Region" means the four (4) Governorates of Tunis, Ariana, Ben Arous
and Manouba.
7. 
"Operations Manual" means the Operations Manual furnished by the Borrower to the
Bank on September 22, 2005, that sets forth the operational guidelines and procedures,
and implementation and institutional arrangements, in respect of Project implementation
activities, as such Manual maybe updated from time to time in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
- 14 -
8. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement for the Urban Water Supply
Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated December 5, 2005 (Loan No. 7339-
TN).
9. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
10. 
"PIU" means the Borrower's Project Implementation Unit referred to in Section I.A.(1)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and established pursuant to a decision of the
President/Director General of the Borrower dated September 23, 2005.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 2, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
