LOAN NUMBER 8408-JM
Loan Agreement
(Foundations for Competitiveness and Growth Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
' 
pkmber3 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
SL k h4 
, 
2014, 
between 
JAMAICA
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and cQnditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE M -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
cause all components of the Project other than Component 3.B to be
carried out by PIOJ in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the terms of the PIOJ MOU, with the assistance
of:
-2-
(i) 
JAMPRO for Components 1 and 2.B (i) of the Project in accordance
with the terms of the JAMPRO MOU; and
(ii) 
DBJ for Components 2.A, 2.B (ii) and (iii), and 3.A of the Project in
accordance with the terms of the DBJ MOU; and
(b) 
cause DBJ to carry out Component 3.B of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the terms of
the DBJ Subsidiary Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The PIOJ Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Bank, the ability of PIOJ to perform any of its obligations under the PIOJ
MOU.
(b) 
The JAMPRO Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
opinion of the Bank, the ability of JAMPRO to perform any of its
obligations under the JAMPRO MOU.
(c) 
The DBJ Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Bank, the ability of DBJ to perform any of its obligations under the DBJ
Subsidiary Agreement or the DBJ MOU.
(d) 
Any party to an MOU or DBJ as party to the DBJ Subsidiary Agreement
shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a), or (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the PIOJ MOU has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and PIOJ;
and
(b) 
the DBJ Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and DBJ, and the DBJ MOU has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower, PIOJ and DBJ.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the DBJ
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
DBJ and is legally binding upon the Borrower and DBJ in accordance with its
terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's
approval of the Loan which expires on January 25, 2016.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister with responsibility for Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica
Facsimile:
876-924-9291
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 4t Mrd-ef 
Jd & 
ic, 
as of the day and year first
above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Re 
ative
Name: 
b 
Lh
Title: 
vikof 
a,c 
jIt
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Nam e: 
To:p_b__e-_!S 
__c_n_e
Title: 
b 
tecJ_,r
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the business environment in Jamaica
for private sector investment.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component 1: Enhancing Competition in the Business Environment
Provision of technical assistance and implementation support to address critical business
regulation and procedural issues faced by investors in the Borrower's territory that
constrain firm entry, operation and expansion, competition, and trade and logistics
including, inter alia:
(i) 
streamlining the process for the issuance of construction permits;
(ii) 
increasing the use of new institutions related to access to finance;
(iii) 
implementation of regulatory reforms for the use and expansion of
electronic systems to improve the efficiency of port operations;
(iv) 
development of regulations for the new special economic zone regime;
and
(v) 
strengthening the Borrower's capacity to proactively advocate for
enhanced 
and 
fair competition 
in 
the 
economy 
through 
the
implementation of selected activities (the Business Environment Reform
TA Activities).
Component 2: Facilitating Strategic Private Investments
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to prepare for and close large strategic investment
transactions with private sector participation including, inter alia:
2.A: Project Preparation Facility
Provision of technical assistance to selected agencies of the Borrower for the carrying out
of feasibility, financial, legal, environmental, social and other studies as needed for the
structuring of public-private partnerships, divestments, and other strategic investments
with potential to have a significant impact on growth and jobs (the PPF Financed
Studies), but excluding implementation of any of said potential investments under the
Project.
-6-
2.B: Technical Assistance and Studies for Investment Support
Provision of technical assistance to selected agencies and departments of the Borrower
designed to complement the studies funded by the facility referred to in Component 2.A
of the Project and to strengthen the Borrower's and its agencies' and departments'
capacity for attracting and planning strategic private sector investments including, inter
alia:
(i) 
investment origination and investment generation support;
(ii) 
investment pre-commissioning and contracting support;
(iii) 
contract management support to improve ex-post monitoring; and
(iv) 
sector studies including a logistics hub master plan with industry analysis
for special economic zones, a redevelopment plan for downtown
Kingston, and a tourism demand and linkages study.
Component 3: Strengthening SMEs' 
Capabilities and Financing of SMEs'
Investments
Provision of support to SMEs for Supply Chain learning and skills upgrading, and
provision of financing to SMEs including, inter alia:
3.A: SMEs Supply Chain Support and Skills Upgrading
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance for Eligible SMEs to identify, together
with large buyers in a Supply Chain, the key commercial challenges in
the Supply Chain, and reach a group solution to overcoming barriers to
growth and productivity, and related challenges (the Supply Chain TA
Activities).
(b) 
Provision of: (A) co-financing to Eligible SMEs in selected Supply
Chains for training and skills upgrading after the respective SMEs'
business plans have been approved by the Borrower (the Matching
Grants); and (B) technical assistance required therefor.
(c) 
Provision of technical assistance to support dialogue among public sector
agencies, SMEs, large buyers, and financial institutions, such as to
resolve bottlenecks in the implementation of Supply Chains (the PPD
Activities).
-7-
3.B: SME Financing
Establishment and operation of a credit facility within DBJ for the provision of financing,
through Subsidiary Loans, to AFIs for on-lending by the AFIs to SMEs, through SME
Sub-loans for SMEs to carry out Sub-projects.
Component 4: Project Implementation and Monitoring and Evaluation
4.A: Project Management and Implementation
Strengthening the Project management capacities of the Borrower and its agencies
involved in Project implementation, including the carrying out of the required Project
audits and evaluations.
4.B Technical Assistance for Communications and Productivity Evaluation
Strengthening PIOJ's capacity for Project communication monitoring and evaluation
including, inter alia:
(i) 
carrying out of a communication and outreach campaign designed to
consult with stakeholders and raise awareness of the Project and the
environmental and social issues involved as well as disseminate relevant
information on the Borrower's productivity and growth agenda;
(ii) 
support to agencies of the Borrower involved in productivity evaluation,
including an evaluation study for the impact on SMEs of the skills
upgrading and financing activities of the Project; and
(iii) 
implementation of a national business census to enable proper sampling
of firms to monitor productivity changes brought about by reforms and
activities supported by the Project.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause PIOJ to maintain, at all times during Project
implementation, a Project execution unit (PEU) with a structure, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and reflected in the Operational Manual.
The Borrower shall cause:
(a) 
PIOJ to maintain, at all times during Project implementation, the PEU
led by a Project manager and assisted by adequate professional, technical
and 
administrative 
staff (including 
procurement 
and 
financial
management specialists); and
(b) 
PIOJ to ensure that DBJ and JAMPRO are assisted at all times during
Project implementation 
by adequate 
professional, 
technical 
and
administrative staff,
all operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
No later than one month after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish a
committee (the Steering Committee), led by the Minister with responsibility for
Finance or his designee, and comprised of representatives of relevant ministries
and agencies of the Borrower and of private sector organizations, with functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and detailed in the Operational
Manual.
B. 
MOUs and DBJ Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project the Borrower shall:
(a) 
make the proceeds of the Loan allocated for all components of the
Project other than component 3.B thereof available to PIOJ under a
memorandum of understanding between the Borrower and PIOJ, under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the
obligation to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement (the "PIOJ MOU");
(b) 
enter into a subsidiary agreement with DBJ, under terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, which shall include inter alia:
-9-
(a) 
that the Borrower shall on-lend to DBJ the Jamaica dollar
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan (the DBJ Loan) allocated
for Component 3.B in terms similar to those of the Loan and
acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
the respective obligations of the Borrower and DBJ in the
implementation of Component 3.B of the Project, in the overall
financial reporting and auditing of the Project;
(c) 
enter into a memorandum of understanding with PIOJ and:
(i) 
JAMPRO with respect to Components 1 and 2.B (i) of the
Project; and
(ii) 
DBJ with respect to Components 2.A, 2.B (ii) and (iii) and 3.A
of the Project
setting forth their respective responsibilities in the implementation of
such components of the Project (the "JAMPRO MOU" and the "DBJ
MOU" respectively).
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
MOUs and the DBJ Subsidiary Agreement and shall cause the agencies parties to
the MOUs and DBJ Subsidiary Agreement to exercise their rights and carry out
their obligations in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not terminate, assign, amend, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce, and shall cause the agencies parties to the MOUs and
DBJ Subsidiary Agreement not to terminate, assign, amend, abrogate, waive or
fail to enforce, any of the MOUs or the DBJ Subsidiary Agreement or any of
their provisions.
C. 
Project Manuals
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause:
(a) 
the Project to be carried out in accordance with an operational manual
acceptable to the Bank (the "Operational Manual"); and
(b) 
the Matching Grants to be provided in accordance with the Operational
Manual and a Procedural Sub-manual acceptable to the Bank (the
"Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual").
-10-
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and shall cause
PIOJ and DBJ not to, amend or waive any provision of the Operational Manual
or the Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual without the Bank's prior written
approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual or
the Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
The Operational Manual shall consist of different sections setting forth the
procedures for the carrying out of the Project including, inter alia, the following:
(a) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, monitoring, reporting,
financial, disbursement and procurement procedures including all
pertinent standard documents and model contracts in relation thereto,
including standard bidding documents in respect of each procurement
method set forth in the Procurement Plan (as applicable);
(b) 
the eligibility criteria and the procedures governing the approval and
financing of Business Environment Reform TA Activities, PPF Financed
Studies, Supply Chain TA Activities, and PPD Activities;
(c) 
the 
eligibility 
criteria 
for 
Eligible 
Subprojects, 
including 
the
environmental typology of investments and financing exclusion based on
such typology;
(d) 
the eligibility criteria for TA Recipients, AFIs and Eligible SMEs,
Matching Grants and SME Sub-loans;
(e) 
the standard form of AFI Subsidiary Loan Agreements and SME Sub-
loan Agreements;
(f) 
the EMF; and
(g) 
the performance indicators and the monitoring and evaluation strategy
for the Project.
3. 
The Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual shall consist of different sections
setting forth rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for
the preparation and the financing of Matching Grants.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-11-
E. 
Technical Assistance Activities
1. 
The Borrower shall cause PIOJ, JAMPRO and DBJ, as the case may be to enter
into, prior to initiating any technical assistance activity under Components 1,
2.A, 2.B and 3.A (i) and (iii) of the Project, a memorandum of understanding or
make other contractual arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, with the TA
Recipient, whereby the TA Recipient will undertake to carry out the Business
Environment Reform TA Activities, PPF Financed Studies, Supply Chain TA
Activities, and PPD Activities, as the case may be, in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and in compliance with the requirements of the
Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause PIOJ, JAMPRO and DBJ to carry out their obligations
and exercise their rights under each of the TA Recipient MOU's in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower, PIQJ, JAMPRO, DBJ and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower shall cause PIOJ,
JAMPRO and DBJ not to, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, terminate,
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the TA Recipient MOU's
or any of their provisions.
F. 
Matching Grants and Sub-loans
1 .
The Borrower shall cause DBJ to enter into a contract with a financial
management agent, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the
management of the provision of the Matching Grants.
2. 
For the purposes of carrying out Component 3.B of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause DBJ to:
(a) 
select AFIs pursuant to criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(b) 
(i) 
on-lend to the AFIs in Jamaican Dollars part of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2) (b) under
AFI Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the
DBJ and each such AFI, under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank which shall include, inter alia: (A) financial terms
acceptable to the Bank; (B) that the AFIs will abide by the Anti-
corruption Guidelines and comply with the safeguard and other
requirements set forth in this Agreement for the SME Sub-loans;
and (C) other terms consistent with the standard form of the AFI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement set forth in the Operational Manual;
(ii) 
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on
its part to enable the AFIs to perform in accordance with the
-12-
provisions of their respective AFI Subsidiary Loan Agreements
all the obligations of the AFIs therein set forth, and not take or
permit to be taken any action that would prevent or interfere with
such performance; and
(iii) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the AFI
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
give its prior approval, not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail
to enforce any such agreement or any provision thereof;
(c) 
monitor the overall execution of Component 3.B of the Project and the
carrying out by the AFIs of their obligations under their respective AFI
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) 
establish a separate account, in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, in which it shall deposit and record the
repayments by the AFIs of their respective AFI Subsidiary Loans; and
(e) 
monitor the total amount of such repayments of AFI Subsidiary Loans
and SME Sub-loans if the on-lending is operated as a line of credit, in
order to continue extending the credit facility established under the
Project by promptly re-lending to the same AFIs thereafter, for additional
lending cycles, thereby assuring that the credit facility is utilized as set
forth in the Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause:
(a) 
PIOJ and DBJ to make Matching Grants (through the agent referred to in
paragraph I of this Section F); and
(b) 
DBJ to cause the AFIs to make SME Sub-loans, to Eligible SMEs under
a Matching Grant Agreement or SME Sub-loan Agreement respectively
to be entered into between the DBJ (or the agent referred to in paragraph
I of this Section F on its behalf) and said Eligible SME, and the AFI and
the Eligible SME on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include the following:
(i) 
the SME Sub-loan shall be made on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank; and
-13-
(ii) 
the Matching Grant shall require the Eligible SME to contribute a portion
of the total cost of the services or training procured for the SME as
elaborated in the Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause DBJ and PIOJ to obtain with respect to Matching
Grants, and cause DBJ to cause the AFIs to obtain with respect to SME Sub-
loans, from the SMEs, under the terms of each Matching Grant Agreement and
SME Sub-loan Agreement, rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, the Borrower, PIOJ, DBJ and the AFIs including the right to:
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible SME to use the proceeds of
the SME Sub-loan, or Matching Grant or declare to be immediately due
and payable in the case of SME Sub-loans or obtain a refund of all or any
part of the amount of the Sub-loan or Matching Grant then withdrawn,
upon the Eligible SME's failure to perform any of its obligations under
the SME Sub-loan Agreement or Matching Grant Agreement; and
(b) 
require each Eligible SME to:
(i) 
carry out its Eligible Subproject with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower;
(ii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose under the Matching Grant;
(iii) 
procure the goods, services and/or operating expenses to be
financed out of the SME Sub-loan or Matching Grant in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement as well as with
the Operational Manual and the Matching Grants Procedural
Sub-manual as appropriate;
(iv) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the
Bank, the progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of its
objectives;
(v) 
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
-14-
Eligible Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's
request, have such financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly
furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank;
(vi) 
enable the Borrower, DBJ and the Bank to inspect the Eligible
Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and
(vii) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, DBJ and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower, DBJ or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause DBJ (and PIOJ with respect to Matching Grants) and
the AFIs under the terms of the AFIs Sub-loan Agreements with respect to SME
Sub-loans to carry out their obligations and exercise their rights under each Sub-
loan Agreement and Matching Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, PIOJ, DBJ and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause DBJ, PIOJ and the AFIs not to assign, terminate, amend, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce any Sub-loan Agreement or Matching Grant Agreement
or any of their provisions.
G. 
Implementation Review
1 .
The Borrower shall, not later than twenty-four (24) months after the Effective
Date, or such later dates as may be agreed upon by the Bank, in conjunction with
the Bank, PIOJ, JAMPRO and DBJ, carry out a progress review of the Project
("Implementation 
Review"), 
covering 
the 
progress 
achieved 
in 
the
implementation of the Project.
2. 
Following such Implementation Review, and without limitation to the provisions
of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall act promptly
and diligently in order to take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action deemed
necessary by the Bank to remedy any shortcoming noted in the carrying out of
the Project in furtherance of the objective of the Project.
H. 
Safeguards
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance
with the provisions and recommendations of the Environmental Management
-15-
Framework and the procedures outlined in the Operational Manual and, if
applicable, the Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual.
2. 
Wherever required in terms of said EMF, the Borrower shall proceed to have an
Environmental Management Plan.
(a) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, submitted to the Bank for
review and approval; and
(c) 
thereafter, adopted/locally disclosed and implemented in accordance with
the terms of the relevant safeguard instrument and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause any ESIAs carried out under Component 2.A and
financed under the Project to be carried out following the requirements of the
Performance Standards in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
or cause to be prepared Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth
out in the Operational Manual and acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause:
(a) 
PIOJ with respect to all Components of the Project; and
(b) 
DBJ with respect to Component 3.B of the Project
-16-
to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the respective
components of the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause PIOJ and DBJ to have their Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions, with PIOJ covering accounts of all Project components and DBJ,
including as an annex, statements regarding the Sub-loans financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan. Each audit of the respective Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consulting services.
-17-
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods
may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a) Limited international bidding
(b) National Competitive Bidding
(c) Shopping
(d) Direct contracting
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.13 of the Procurement Guidelines of
Goods and Non-consulting Services.
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraph 3.14 and 3.15 of the Procurement
Guidelines of Goods and Non-consulting services
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Methods
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Least Cost Selection
(c) Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications
(d) Single-source Procedures for the Selection of Consulting Firms
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
-18-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
4,600,000 
100%
services, Training and
consultants' services
for Components 1 and
2.B (i) of the Project
-19-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Cateeory 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(2) (a) Goods, non-consulting
services, Training and 
14,500,000 
100%
consultants' services for
Components 2.A, 2.B (ii)
and (iii) and 3 (other than
under SME Sub-loans and
Matching Grants)
(2) (b) SME Sub-loans 
16,175,000 
100% of the amounts
disbursed as per the terms of
(2) (c) Matching Grants 
4,500,000 
the respective SME Sub-loan
Agreement or Matching Grant
Agreement
(3) Goods, non-consulting 
10,100,000 
100%
services, Training and
consultants' services for
Components 2.B (iv) and 4
of the Project, and
Operating Costs for all
Components of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
-20-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after May 1, 2014, for Eligible Expenditures;
(b) 
for payments made under Category (1) for Components 1 and 2.B (i) of
the Project unless the JAMPRO MOU has been entered into by the
parties thereto; or
(c) 
for payments made under Sub-Category (2) (c) for Matching 
Grants
under Component 3.A (ii) of the Project unless:
(i) 
the Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual has been approved
by the Bank and adopted by DBJ: and
(ii) 
the financial management agent referred to in Section 1. F. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been contracted under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
-21-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning on February 15 , 2020
through February 15 , 2043 
2.08%
On August 15, 2043 
2.24%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
-22-
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on.or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-23-
APPENDIX
Section . Definitions
"AFI" means a bank or other financial institution operating in the Borrower's
territory eligible to participate in Component 3.B of the Project pursuant to the
Operational Manual.
2. 
"AFI Subsidiary Loan" means any loan made by DBJ to an AFI pursuant to an
AFI Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
3. 
"AFI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement entered or to be entered
into between DBJ and any AFI pursuant to Section 1. F.2 (b) (i) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Business Environment Reform TA Activity" means any technical assistance
activity selected following the procedures of the Operational Manual, and
acceptable to the Bank, for implementation and financing under Component I of
the Project.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8. 
"DBJ" means Development Bank of Jamaica, the Borrower's development bank
established and operating pursuant to the DBJ Legislation.
9. 
"DBJ Legislation" means the Companies Act 2004 and DBJ's Articles of
Incorporation of June 18, 198 1, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
10. 
"DBJ Loan" means the loan made by the Borrower to DBJ, referred to in Section
I.B.1I(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"DBJ MOU" means the memorandum of understanding referred to in Section
I.B.1I(c)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-24-
12. 
"DBJ Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section [.B.1(b)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall onlend to
DBJ the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Component 3.B of the Project.
13. 
"Eligible SME" means an SME eligible to receive financing under Component 3
of the Project pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual or the Matching
Grants Procedural Sub-manual as the case may be.
14. 
"Eligible Subproject" means an investment or technical assistance activity to be
carried out by an Eligible SME under Components 3.A (ii) or 3.B and financed
with the proceeds of a SME Subloan or a Matching Grant in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual and/ or the Matching Grants Procedural
Sub-manual.
15. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or EMF" means the Borrower's
environmental management framework (included in the Operational Manual),
disclosed in the Borrower's territory on May 14, 2014 and at the Bank's Infoshop
on May 14, 2014 giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies
designed to maximize the benefits of the Project, eliminate, offset or mitigate any
adverse environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels,
along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such
actions, including:
(a) 
the procedures for a three tiered environmental and social impact
assessment for activities to be carried out under Component 2 of the
Project;
(b) 
the requirements for the preparation of ESIAs; and
(c) 
the environmental requirements for Eligible Sub-projects, as said
framework may be amended form time to time with the prior consent of
the Bank.
16. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means any plan prepared and
implemented and lor any environmental permit processed in accordance with the
requirements of the EMF.
17. 
"ESIA" means an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment carried out
pursuant to the EMF and in accordance with the Performance Standards.
18. 
"Implementation Review" means the review referred to in Section I.G. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-25-
19. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
20. 
"Jamaican Dollar" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
21. 
"JAMPRO" means Jamaica Promotions Corporation, the Borrower's corporation
established and operating pursuant to the JAMPRO Legislation.
22. 
"JAMPRO Legislation" means the Borrower's Jamaica Promotions Corporation
Act, dated April 26, 1990, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
23. 
"JAMPRO MOU" means the memorandum of understanding referred to in
Section I.B.1(c)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Matching Grant" means a grant made or to be made to an Eligible SME out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Component 3.A (ii) of the Project to
partially finance training pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, the
Operational Manual, and the Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual.
25. 
"Matching Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.F.3 and 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the term "Matching Grant
Agreements" means collectively all such Matching Grant Agreements.
26. 
"Matching Grants Procedural Sub-manual" means the sub-manual referred to in
Section I. C. 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"MOU" means collectively the PIOJ MOU, the DBJ MOU and the JAMPRO
MOU.
28. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable and necessary incremental expenses
incurred by PIOJ, DBJ, and JAMPRO with respect to Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including the costs of staff salaries (excluding
salaries of the Borrower's civil service staff), communication, editing, printing
and publication, translation, vehicle operation and maintenance, bank charges,
local travel costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, utilities, equipment and
supplies.
29. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I. C. 1 (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30. 
"Performance 
Standards" 
means 
the 
Bank's 
Performance 
Standard 
I
(Assessment and Management of Environmental and Social Risks and Impacts),
dated 
July 
1, 2012, the Equator Principles Performance 
Standard 2
(Environmental and Social Assessment), dated June 4, 2013, and the associated
-26-
performance standard in both documents determined to be applicable during the
assessment process.
31. 
"PEU" means the Project execution unit referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement established by PIOJ on May 5, 2014.
32. 
"PIOJ" means Planning Institute of Jamaica, the Borrower's planning institute
established and operating pursuant to the PIOJ Legislation.
33. 
"PIOJ Legislation" means the Borrower's Planning Institute of Jamaica Act,
dated April 6, 1984.
34. 
"PIOJ MOU" means the memorandum of understanding referred to in Section
I.B. 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall
make the proceeds of the Loan available to PIOJ.
35. 
"PPD Activity" means any activity selected following the procedures of the
Operational Manual, and acceptable to the Bank, for implementation and
financing under Component 3.A (iii) of the Project.
36. 
"PPF Financed Study" means any study selected following the procedures of the
Operational Manual, and acceptable to the Bank, for implementation and
financing under Component 2.A of the Project.
37. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
38. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated June 6, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
39. 
"SME" means any small and medium enterprise established and operating in the
Borrower's territory eligible for participation in Component 3 of the Project
pursuant to the requirements of the Operational Manual and Matching Grants
Procedural Sub-manual.
40. 
"SME Sub-loan" means a loan made or to be made to a an Eligible SME out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Component 3.B of the Project to finance
goods, services and/or operating expenses under the pertinent Eligible Subproject
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and the Operational Manual.
-27-
41. 
"SME Sub-loan Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.F.3 and 4 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, and the term "SME Sub-loan
Agreements" means collectively all such Sub-loans Agreements.
42. 
"Supply Chain" means the chain of steps and different businesses involved to
purchase inputs and add value to bring a particular product to the eventual end-
user with the goal of delivering a maximum value for the least possible total cost.
43. 
"Supply Chain TA Activity" means any technical assistance to be provided to an
Eligible SME selected pursuant to the Operational Manual, acceptable to the
Bank, and to be implemented under Component 3.A (i) of the Project.
44. 
"TA Recipient" means any recipient of technical assistance carried out under
Components 1, 2.A, 3.A (i) and (iii) of the Project.
45. 
"TA Recipient MOU" means any of the memoranda of understanding to be
entered into among PIOJ, JAMPRO and/or DBJ, as the case may be, and a TA
Recipient pursuant to the provisions of Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-28-
