CUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8424-CN
Lolan Agreement
(Zhejiang Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
D ited Ao 
%4^V" 
-
2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8424-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
pres*,b 
>-, 
2014, 
between 
PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFIN'ITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million dollars
($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread,
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount ol the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set brth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower ma r at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of th; Loan. in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a cl.ange of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of i he principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from i Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread t4 a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spre d, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdra vn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits oi the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portior of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by,thc establishment of an hiterest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Vari ible Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion roquested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Cc nditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Arti, le IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly followi ig the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Co lar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Boi rower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount, required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from tin e to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
AR rICLE M - PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares it. commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall c ause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance wit ithe provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreemen t.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon he provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower a ad the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
-3-
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of'America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beijing, Pople's Republic of China, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Lot, 
It.
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
/ 
s-
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
C,A/
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to sustainable water supply and
sanitation services in selected villages and towns in rural areas of Zhejiang Province.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improving Water Supply and Sanitation
Improvement of drinking water services and sanitary services through the
carrying out of Subprojects consisting of, inter alia, investments in rehabilitation
and construction of water mains, water channels and ponds, distribution
networks, pumping stations, water treatment plants, wastewater and storm water
collection networks, septic tanks, toilets, end-of-pipe small scale domestic
wastewater treatment facilities and municipal wastewater treatment plants in:
(a) 
Anji County;
(b) 
Fuyang City (inicluding the Fuyang WWTP Subproject - Phase 4);
(c) 
Tiantai County; and
(d) 
Longquan City.
Part 2. Training and Capacity Building
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance, training and carrying out of capacity
building activities aimed at improving the implementation, efficiency,
operation and maintenance performance of water supply and sanitation
investments under the Project.
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance and implementation of a program to
monitor and evaluate the performance of Project-supported small scale
end-of-pipe wastewater treatment facilities, aimed at improving the
operational efficiency of Project investments.
Part 3. Project Management and Supervision
Provision of technical support, including training and capacity building activities,
to the Project Implementing Entity, Project Participants and Project Companies
to coordinate and manage the implementation of the Project, including on: (a)
financial management, procurement, contract supervision. and reporting; (b)
outcome monitoring and evaluation; (c) construction supervision; and (d) the
supervision of Safeguards Instruments implementation.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangemen :s
1. 
For the purposes of carry Eng out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available
to the Project Implement ng Entity the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the Categories set forth in the table in Section IV of this Schedule, on
the following principal te rms:
(a) 
The principal ar iount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Convei sion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of
the currency or c Trrencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal an ount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursi tant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions)
shall be recovere 
over a period of twenty five (25) years, inclusive of a
grace period of s: x (6) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding fron time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from :ime to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of ti s Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cat se the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfei and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to parag -aph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory :o the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely cons4 pts and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan -roceeds and the implementation of the Project, and to
comply with its undertal ings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all
relevant records and doc iments related to the Loan and the Project and provide
promptly such document and records, including all other information, as may be
requested by the Borrow r or the Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensu e that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Cc rruption Guidelines.
-7-
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.C of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 11. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting. Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare Project Reports in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part
of the Project Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after.the end of such period. The Borrower
shall make, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to make, the audited
Financial Statements, publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
-8-
referred to in Section I o 'the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the pi oceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set for h or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the >rovisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capi alized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement i iethods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the cor esponding method described in Sections II and W of the
Procurement Guideline:, or Sections II, m, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case n ay be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competi ive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. 
The followi ig methods, other than National Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procu -ement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specil ed in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to tho additional provisions set forth in the box below; (b)
Direct Contracting; (c) 3hopping; and (d) Framework Agreements.
The procedures appli able to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services 
inder contracts awarded on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding (;NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth
in the Borrower's. La)N on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No.
21 dated August 30, i999; provided, however, that such procedures shall be
subject to the provisio: is of Section I, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section II, and
Appendix 1 of the Pro,-urement Guidelines, and the additional provisions in the
following. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and
these NCB Procedure Aodifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to I articipate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financec contract shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement 3uidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be decl red ineligible for such contract for reasons other than
those provide d in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. 
No
restriction bas ed on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall
apply, and f reign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB
without appli ation of restrictive conditions.
(i i) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national
newspaper of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely
used website / electronic portal with free national and international
access acceptable to the Bank except for goods or non-consulting
services contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost less than
$2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and
prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such
advertisement (or. the date of availability of bidding documents,
whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of bids, and the
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for the
submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website /
electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally
and internationally until at least the deadline for the submission of bids.
Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding
documents at any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall
be used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of
the information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along
with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment.
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall be no
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-qualification is
not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended for award
of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. 
A
bidder shall not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or
purchasing bidding documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract
award. 
A bidder determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering (if required)
before contract signing without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not
be restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-classified
- 10 -
contractors shal also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of 1ireference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as
on the basis oft ieir location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the
geographical ar a in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders % ho are awarded contracts for works and single-
responsibility 
ontracts shall be required to provide performance
security in an a nount sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project
Implementing E rtity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of breach of
contract by the :ontractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the
required form .nd amount of such security and any other potential
damages for suc h breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall >e opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be
required to be pi esent at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluatin criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents
and quantified i a monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds
any cost estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or
average bids es ablished by the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity / Entities as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding
shall not be allo wed solely because the number of bids is less than three
(3), and rejecti(-n of all bids or rebidding shall not take place without
the Bank's prioi written agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of
capability and r -sources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be
substantially re, ponsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the
lowest evaluate I cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a
condition of avy ard, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume
other obligatior s not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise
to modify the 1 
hid as originally submitted. 
No negotiations shall be
permitted excer t with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract s iall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to
sanction firms or individuals found to have engaged in fraud and
- 11 -
corruption as set forth in the Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with
respect to inspection and audit of accounts, records and other
documents relating to the submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-
consulting services if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xvii) 
Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and
assignment of contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding
documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in
the national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above)
or official gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify:
(A) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read
out at bid opening; (C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price,
of each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose bids
were either rejected as non-responsive or not meeting qualification
criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor; and (E) the name of
the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as well as the
duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be
within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and
within two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity's award decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review.
The bidding documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or
the electronic means by which the information on contract award will
be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case
may be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest
mechanism for bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide
the professional title and address of the official to whom such protests
should be sent.
- 12 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-b ased Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of P -ocurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which ma3 be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circu mnstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Mf thods
(a) 
Quality-Ba, ed Selection
(b) 
Selection B ised on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Selection oJ Individual Consultants
(d) 
Single Sour :e Selection (Firm and Individual)
D. 
Review by the Bank if Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal or Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article H of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in par; tgraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table sp(cifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the pi oceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan tc each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible E? penditures in each Category.
- 13 -
Amount of 
Percentage of
Category 
the Loan Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(Expressed in 
Financed
Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works for Subprojects under:
(a) Part 1(a) of the Project 
53,210,000
(Anji County)
(b) Part 1(b) of the Project 
35,670,000
(Fuyang City) 
85%
(c) Part 1(c) of the Project 
43,540,000
(Tiantai County)
(d) Part 1(d) of the Project 
38,700,000
(Longquan City)
(2). Goods for the Fuyang WWTP 
22,380,000 
100%
Subproject - Phase 4 (under Part
1(b) of the Project)
(3) Goods (except for those covered 
6,000,000 
100%
under Category (2) herein),
consultants' services, non-
consulting services and
Training
(4) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of
the General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
-14-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Wi :hdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisior s of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made -rior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to a i aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000
equivalent may be m de for payments made prior to this date but on or
after May 15, 2014, fc r Eligible Expenditures;
(b) 
under each of Categc ries (1)(a) through (1)(d), and (2), until the Bank
shall have notified th Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of
its receipt of a copy of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement enteed into
between the Project Participant concerned and its Respective Project
Company, satisfactor3 to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.E. 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
(c) 
under Category (1)(b 
until the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
and the Project Impl -menting Entity of its receipt of a copy of the
environmental 
acceptance 
certification 
issued 
by the competent
Environment Protccti,n Department, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding
the Fuyang WWTP pk ase 3 expansion.
2. 
The Closing Date is Decembei 31, 2020.
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total. principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 March 2021 
1.61
15 September 2021 
1.65
15 March 2022 
1.69
15 September 2022 
1.73
15 March 2023 
1.78
15 September 2023 
1.82
15 March 2024 
1.87
15 September 2024 
1.91
15 March 2025 
1.96
15 September 2025 
2.01
15 March 2026 
2.06
15 September 2026 
2.11
15 March 2027 
2.17
15 September 2027 
2.22
15 March 2028 
2.27
15 September 2028 
2.33
15 March 2029 
2.39
15 September 2029 
2.45
15 March 2030 
2.51
15 September 2030 
.2.57-
15 March 2031 
2.64
15 September 2031 
2.70
15 March 2032 
2.77
15 September 2032 
2.84
15 March 2033 
2.91
15 September 2033 
2.98
15 March 2034 
3.06
15 September 2034 
3.14
-16-
15 March 2035 
3.21
15 September 2035 
3.29
15 March 2036 
3.38
15 September 2036 
3.46
15 March 2037 
3.55
15 September 2037 
3.64
15 March 2038 
3.73
15 September 2038 
3.82
15 March 2039 
3.92
15 September 2039 
3.85
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan I iave not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principa. amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Dat. shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Bi lance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdi awn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Pri icipal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amc unts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each suci withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Pi incipal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares :or Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts -epayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loa 1 withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts p iyable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and ou standing on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment I late commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the c ate of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the BE nk adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of sucl 
sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made a ter the adoption of such billing system.
-17-
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines " means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corrup:ion in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated Oc:ober 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category 3et forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" mea is the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Lo,.ns and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
The acronym "CPMO" mean s the Project management offices established and
maintained by each Project Participant in accordance with the provisions of
Section I.A.1(c) of the Schec ule to the Project Agreement, and any successors
thereto.
5. 
"Dam Safety Action Plan" m -ans the Project Implementing Entity's plan, dated
May 2014, setting forth the p -ovisions to be followed with regard to dam safety
standards and dam manageme it under the Project.
6. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced o.- would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the in, oluntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of liveliht od, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the in foluntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, res ilting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Displaced Per ion" means any of such Displaced Persons.
7. 
The acronym "EMP" means tie Borrower's plan dated May 2014, which set out
the environmental protection measures in respect. of the Project, as well as
administrative and monitorinE arrangements to ensure the implementation of said
plan, as such plan may be re ised from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
8. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscaL year of the Project Implementing Entity, covering
the period January 1 through December 31.
9. 
"Fuyang WWTP" means Fuy; ng Municipality's wastewater treatment plant built
in May 2000, located in No. (8 Jiangbindong Avenue, Fuyang City, including its
three expansions as of June 2( 07.
-19-
10. 
"Fuyang WWTP Subproject - Phase 4" means the fourth expansion of the
Fuyang WWTP, to be financed as a Subproject under Part 1(b) of the Project,
following the eligibility criteria, technical standards and procedures set forth in
this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Operations Manual.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
12. 
"Operations Manual" means the manual dated July 25, 2014, referred to in
Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, prepared and adopted by
the Project Implementing Entity, the Project Participants and Project Companies,
and which sets forth the operational arrangements for the Project, including, inter
alia: (a) the Project's performance indicators; (b) financial management,
disbursement and audit procedures; (c) technical models and procurement
procedures; (d) procedures for the selection, implementation and monitoring of
Subprojects, including procurement procedures, monitoring arrangements, and
technical and eligibility criteria; (e) safeguards procedures and safeguards
instruments, including the RPF, RAPs, EMP and the Dam Safety Action Plan;
and (f) provisions to be followed with regard to dam safety standards and dam
management under the Project, as the same may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated July 25, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
The acronym "PPMO" means the Project management office established and
maintained by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.A. 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successors
thereto.
16. 
"Project Company" means, individually, each of the Project companies set forth
in the second column of the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement and identified
also by the acronym set forth in the third column of the same table, which
company is established and operating pursuant to its:
(a) 
Charter issued on the date specified in said table; specifically, in the fifth
column of the same row as the Project Company concerned; and
(b) 
Business license issued by the relevant Municipal Industrial and
Commercial Administration Bureau on the date and with the license
-20-
number specified in s id table; specifically, in the fifth and sixth columns
of the same row as tho Project Company concerned,
and any successor thereto; an i "Project Companies" means, collectively, all such
companies.
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity' means the Borrower's Zhejiang Province and any
successor thereto.
18. 
"Project Participants" means, collectively, the Borrower's municipalities and
counties set forth in the fi -st column of the table in Appendix 2 to this
Agreement, and any other nunicipalities or counties selected by agreement
among the Borrower, Zhejia ig and the Bank and any successors thereto; and
"Project Participant" means, i tdividually, any of such Project Participants.
19. 
"Provincial Leading Group" i aeans the provincial leading group established and
maintained by the Project Iml lementing Entity in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.A. 1 (a) of the Sol edule to the Project Agreement, and any successor
thereto.
20. 
The acronym "RAPs" means, collectively, the following plans which set out the
principles and procedures gov erning the acquisition of land and other assets, and
the resettlement, compensat on and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on
account of Project execution, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements
to ensure compliance with sa d plans, as the same may be revised from time to
time with the prior agreement of the Bank:
(a) 
the four (4) resettlei ient action plans, all dated June 2014, for the
carrying out of Subpi ojects under Part I of the Project in Anji County,
Fuyuan City, Tiantai County and Longquan City; and
(b) 
any resettlement actic n plans to be prepared by the Project Participants
pursuant to Section 1,C.1(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement
and agreed to by the I ank.
The acronym "RAP" means, i idividually, any such plan.
21. 
"Resettlement Policy Framew irk" and the acronym "RPF" mean the resettlement
policy framework dated June 2014, which framework sets out the policies and
procedures 
for the acquis tion of land. and other assets, resettlement,
compensation and rehabilitati )n of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of
resettlement action plans wh mever required during the implementation of the
Project, as said framework n Lay be amended from time to time with the prior
concurrence of the Bank.
22. 
"Respective Parts of the I roject" means in respect 6f: (a) each Project
Participant, activities under tie Project to be carried out within its jurisdiction;
-21-
and (b) each Project Company, activities under the Project to be carried out by
said Project Company within the jurisdiction of the Project Participant
concerned.
23. 
"Respective Project Company" means in respect of each Project Participant, the
Project Company set forth in the same row as the Project Participant, in the table
in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, and any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.
24. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the EMP, the RAPs and the RPF,
and the Dam Safety Action Plan, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such instruments.
25. 
"Subprojects" means any of the activities under Part 1 of the Project, to be
carried out by the Project Participants and/or the Project Companies, all under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with the
eligibility criteria, technical standards and procedures set forth to that effect in
the Operations Manual.
26. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements to be entered
into between each Project Participant and its Respective Project Company
pursuant to Section LE.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and Section
IV.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements suppleiental
to said agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means, individually, any
of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
27. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on
annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to
seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas study trips, along with travel
and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation
28. 
"Zhejiang" means the Borrower's Province of Zhejiang, and any successor
thereto.
