OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTSi
LOAN NUMBER 8336-ID
Loan Agreement
(Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Program- Coral Triangle Initiative (COREMAP-CTI)
Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
MnP-CH 
1-( 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
LOAN NUMBER 8336-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated MAACH 
1- 
, 2014, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for
the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined
in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of forty seven million three hundred eighty thousand United
States Dollars (US$47,380,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by
the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of
the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out Parts 1.1., 1.3, 1.4, 2, 3 and 4 of the Project, through MMAF, as
Executing Agency and Implementing Agency, and shall carry out Part 1.2 of the Project
through LIPI, as Implementing Agency.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the GEF
Grant Agreement dated the same date as this Agreement, between the Borrower (as
Recipient) and the Bank, providing a GEF grant in support of the Project, has been executed
and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient
to make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been
fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
4 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Directorate General of Debt Management
Gedung Frans Seda
JI. DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
62-21-381-2859
Jakarta
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
5 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Robert Pakpahan
Title: 
Director General
of Debt Management
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By:
,AuthoAized:epr entative
Name: 
r0DPfG60 
A .
CHAVE9
Title: 
Couwry- 
Pth.IXcTUR
6 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to institutionalize the COREMAP Approach of a viable,
decentralized and integrated framework for sustainable management of coral reef resources,
associated eco-systems and bio-diversity for the welfare of the communities in the Selected Districts
of the Respective Provinces in Indonesia.
d
The Project consists of the Ofiginal Project as modified below:
Part 1: Institutional Strengthening for decentralized coral reef management. Institutionalize the
COREMAP Approach and provide support for policy and legal framework development
through the following activities in the Selected Districts or in the National and District
MCAs, as applicable:
1. 1: Strengthening and expansion of the COREMAP Approach through the carrying out of
inter alia, the following activities: (a) mainstream and embed a'decentralized approach to
coral reef ecosystem management within the local government and village program of
activities in the villages of the Selected Districts; (b) raise awareness through an outreach
program to enable adoption of the COREMAP approach in non-COREMAP villages,
including support for a learning network of coastal mayors and village heads informed by
COREMAP experience and personnel exchange visits; (c) link the Project with country-wide
CTI activities; and (d) transform the village level Coral Resources Management Plans to
coastal resource management plans that link up with District zoning plans.
1. 2: Support for robust ecological and socioeconomic monitoring through the carrying out
of inter alia, the following activities: (a) upgrade coral reef management information systems
in terms of content, presentation, access, integration with CTI-based information databases,
and to serve as the official repository for coral reef ecological and socio-economic
monitoring information; (b) develop a certification and training program for coral reef
monitoring incorporating best practice; (c) conduct monitoring and collaboration activities
with various government agencies, civil society organizations and private organizations; (d)
improve and disseminate coral reef protection education modules for elementary through
high schools; and (e) improve communities knowledge of adaptation measures to respond to
coral reef-related climate change impacts.
1.3: Strengthening surveillance of coastal ecosystems: (a) develop best practice approaches
to marine monitoring, control and surveillance, including regular joint patrols involving the
Borrower's navy, DINAS and community participation at the provincial level; (b) strengthen
local level MCS institutions (pok7aswas) in Project villages, Districts, and MCAs; and (c)
provide pokmas was near "violation hot-spots" and MCS patrols with monitoring and
communications equipment, and (d) support the training of coastal police and civil
investigators (penyidik pegawai negeri sipil) to prosecute violators of laws and regulations
related to coral reef management.
7 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
1.4: Strengthening technical capacity through the carrying out of inter alia, the following
activities: (a) train MMAF staff in identified core competencies; (b) provide short-term
training including internship (national and international) on a range of topics to national and
district staff, community members, and fisheries extension officers (penyuluh perikanan
lapangan); and (c) support advanced graduate degree programs on fisheries management for
selected national staff of the Directorate General of Capture Fisheries within MMAF.
Part 2: Development of Ecosystem Based Resources Management 
Improve management of
national and district MCAs and create enabling conditions for sustainable use of the
surrounding production seascape through the carrying out of, inter alia, the following
activities in the Selected Districts, Respective Provinces, National and District MCAs, or
Selected Fisheries Management Areas, as applicable:
2.1: Support preparation ofzoning plans: (a) support the preparation and finalization of the
zoning plans for the Selected Districts and for the Respective Provinces, as needed; and (b)
support activities required to draft the final District regulation (Peraturan Daerah -perda) in
each of the Selected Districts.
2.2: Application of integrated coastal management: (a) provide training and build awareness
about integrated coastal management aspects across a range of stakeholders; and (b) support
the preparation of an integrated coastal management plan for the Selected Districts, as
needed, based on the village level coastal management plans.
2.3: Management Effectiveness of MCAs: (a) support the preparation and finalization of the
zoning and management plans for the National and District MCAs; (b) carry out investments
and activities relating to conservation area management; and (c) support the preparation of a
national strategic action plan for at least three marine threatened species, and implement
protection management plans in three selected pilot sites within the Selected National and
District MCAs.
2.4: Piloting community rights-based approach: (a) ascertain the feasibility of the designated
pilot areas for community based approach for the management of marine resources; and (b)
support the process of defining and establishing community rights over reef, fishery and
associated resources through implementation of two pilots.
2.S: Sustainable fisheries management in selected fisheries management areas: (a) carry out
stock assessment and status of selected coral reef fish; (b) develop a coral reef fish
management plan based on the stock assessments and an eco-system approach to fisheries
management for select coral reef fish species; (c) assess the District level fisheries
performance in selected areas using EAFM indicators; and (d) train MMAF staff and district
fishery officers, and build awareness in relevant stakeholders on EAFM.
Part 3: Strengthening Sustainable Marine-based Economy. Support the development of
sustainable, ecosystem-based marine enterprises that reinforce links between healthy marine
ecosystems and economic benefits, and create an economic basis to sustain COREMAP local
institutions (including coastal resources management committees, community surveillance
groups (pokmaswas- kelompok masyarakat pengawas), gender groups, and conservation
groups) through the carrying out, inter alia, of the following activities in the Selected
Districts or National or District MCAs, as applicable:
8 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
3.1: Creation of basic infrastructure: (a) prioritize and finance basic infrastructure for the
development of selected District and National MCAs; and (b) identify and develop the
prioritized enabling infrastructure to attract private investment and to support sustainable
enterprise alliances development in the Eligible Districts.
3.2: Pilot program to test the development of sustainable enterprise alliances: (a) carry out a
feasibility study for SEA development in Eligible Districts, and identify and select the
different District, location, business enterprise options based on an assessment of District
development plans and District level feasibility studies; (b) support the establishment of
District level associations of village coral resources management committees (LPSTK); (c)
support the formation of community groups of Eligible Beneficiaries; (d) promote the
establishment of SEAs with private partners selected through a competitive process; (e)
provision of Grants to Community Groups to finance Subprojects; and (f) support piloting of
technological best practice approaches (building from other Subprojects successes and
failures), market development and outreach activities related to the SEAs.
Part 4: Project Management, Coordination and Learning. Support for the, following activities:
(a) monitoring and evaluation of Project performance; (b) learning networks and
dissemination of best practices; (c) compliance monitoring on safeguards and fiduciary
management; and (d) coordination with the Asian Development Bank and other partners.
9 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the Project, a national steering
committee comprising representatives of, inter alia, BAPPENAS, MMAF, LIPI, and MOF,
said steering committee to review overall progress of Project implementation.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out Parts 1.1, 1.3, 1.4, 2, 3 and 4 of the Project through MMAF, and
Part 1.2 of the Project through LIPI, all of this under the overall direction of MMAF.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, through MMAF and LIPI that their respective project
implementing units are fully staffed with qualified staff in adequate numbers and supported
by experts procurement, financial management, technical, social and environmental
management, monitoring, evaluation, institutional capacity building and related capacities, in
each case with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Borrower and Bank.
4. 
LIPI and MMAF
The Borrower, through MMAF and LIPI shall: (A) carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, the ESSF, the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines and the Governance and Anti-Corruption Plan; (B) provide, promptly
as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and services
for the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (D) monitor and evaluate
the implementation of the Project in accordance with the indicators included in the Project
Implementation Manual; (E) (1) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable
to the Bank; and (2) at the Bank's request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the
Bank, (F) enable the Bank to inspect the carrying out of the Project and any relevant records
and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
10 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
5. 
Grants to Selected Community Groups
(a) 
For purposes of Part 3.2 of the Project, the Borrower, through MMAF, shall select
Subprojects in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the
Bank (including the Community Group being established as a separate entity through
a letter of the respective LPSTK with the agreement of the respective Marine and
Fisheries District Office, and that the Grant Agreement be signed by all individual
members of the Community Group), which eligibility criteria and procedures shall be
included in the SEA Development Manual.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MMAF, shall make each Grant under a Grant Agreement with
the respective Selected Community Group on terms and conditions approved by the
Bank to be included in the SEA Development Manual.
(c) 
The Borrower, through MMAF, shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests
and those of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Selected Community Group to use the
proceeds of the Grant upon the Selected Community Group's failure to
perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Selected Community Group to: (A) carry out its Subproject with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with: (1) the
environmental and social safeguards requirements set out in the ESSF (and
relevant plans prepared or to be prepared under the ESSF) and (2) the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the
resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and services
to be financed out of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement; (D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with the indicators included in the
Project Implementation Manual, the progress of the Subproject and the
achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and
the Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Subproject, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G) prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or
the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
11 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Grant Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
6. 
SEA Development Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through MMAF, shall prepare and thereafter provide Grants to the
Selected Community Groups in accordance with a SEA Development Manual,
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: the selection
criteria for Districts and Community Groups to benefit from the activities under Part
3.2 of the Project, the types of SEA businesses that can be financed under Part 3.2 of
the Project, and the detailed arrangements to channel financial assistance to the
Selected Community Groups under Part 3.2 of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MMAF, shall not take any action to amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the SEA Development Manual without
the prior written agreement of the Bank.
(c) 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the SEA Development Manual,
including any annexes and supplements thereto, and the provisions of this
Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
7. 
Project Implementation Manual. The Borrower, through MMAF and LIPI, shall:
(a) 
adopt and thereafter implement the Project, and cause the Selected Community
Groups to carry out the Project, in accordance with the Project Implementation
Manual, including all annexes and supplements thereto, acceptable to the Bank and
the Borrower, giving details of: (i) implementation arrangements; (ii) procurement
procedures as set forth in Section III of this Schedule 2 and standard procurement
documentation; (iii) reporting requirements, financial management procedures and
audit procedures as set forth in Section II.B of this Schedule 2 and the related
financial management action plan; 
(iv) project performance indicators; (v) the
eligibility criteria for District and National MCAs to participate in Part 3.1 of the
Project; (vi) protocols for coral-reef surveillance activities, and (vii) the Governance
and Anticorruption Action Plan;
(b) 
not take any action to amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of
the Project Implementation Manual without the prior written agreement of the Bank;
(c) 
ensure that the Project Implementation Manual, including all annexes and
supplements thereto, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and
each of -the -environmental -and social safeguards instruments referred in the
Environmental and Social Management Framework is made available, at all times
until completion of the Project, to the Selected Community Groups; and
(d) 
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, update the Project Implementation
Manual, including all annexes and supplements thereto, as necessary, at all times
ensuring compliance thereof with the terms of this Agreement.
12 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
(e) 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Implementation
Manual, including any annexes and supplements thereto, and the provisions of this
Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
B. 
Safeguards
General Provisions
1 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MMAF and LIPI, shall carry out, and cause the Selected
Community Groups and the relevant Marine and Fisheries District Office (Dinas) to
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and
Social Safeguards Framework, including the environmental and social plans to be
prepared throughout the implementation of the Project pursuant to said
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework.
(b) 
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree in writing, none of the
Borrower, nor any of their respective agencies shall assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned,
or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of the Environmental and
Social Safeguards Framework and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively for the
Project, and shall not be used for any military purpose or for the enforcement of non-fisheries
or non-coral reef protection laws.
4. 
With respect to activities under Part 1.3 of the Project, the Borrower, through MMAF shall
ensure that: (i) the activities are carried out within twelve (12) nautical miles from the coast
of the territory of the relevant Selected District; and (ii) where a patrol or surveillance
mission has multiple tasks, the Borrower shall keep accounts in a manner acceptable to the
Borrower and to the Bank which demonstrate that the Loan has been used for the exclusive
purpose of financing marine monitoring control and surveillance activities.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti Corruption Guidelines and the Governance and Anti-Corruption Action Plan.
13 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through the Project Management Office, shall monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank
and included in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month
after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions
of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and HI of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, m, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
14 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Community
Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants' services
for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Selection based on
Consultants' Qualifications; (b) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (c) Procedures
set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (d) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual
Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in
each Category.
15 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Loan Allocated 
Financed
(expressed in 
(inclusive of Taxes)
USD)
(1) Works, Training and 
34,043,000 
100%
Workshops, Consultant
Services, Goods,
Incremental Operating
Costs
(2) Grants 
11,045,000 
100% of Grant amount disbursed
(3) Scholarships 
2,292,000 
100%
TOTAL AMOUNT 
47,380,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end
Fee;
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, or
(c) 
under Category (2) unless the Borrower has prepared an SEA Development Manual
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
16 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
June 01, 2023 
3.68
December 01, 2023 
3.77
June 01, 2024 
3.87
December 01, 2024 
3.96
June 01, 2025 
4.06
December 01, 2025 
4.16
June 01, 2026 
4.27
December 01, 2026 
4.37
June 01, 2027 
4.48
December 01, 2027 
4.60
June 01, 2028 
4.71
December 01, 2028 
4.83
June 01, 2029 
4.95
December 01, 2029 
5.07
June 01, 2030 
5.20
December 01, 2030 
5.33
June 01, 2031 
5.46
December 01, 2031 
5.60
June 01, 2032 
5.74
December 01, 2032 
5.88
June 01, 2033 
6.01
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
17 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date,
such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to
the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
18 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
SCHEDULE 4
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan
Umum (Public Tendering) and Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering)
methods as set forth in the Recipient's Presidential Regulation No. 54/2010 as amended through July
31, 2012, 
including amendments set forth in Presidential Regulation No. 70/2012, with the
modifications set out below in order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad
consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph
3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method shall apply to such
procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in said Regulation. In the event of a conflict
between the Borrower's procedures and these modifications, the latter shall govern.
I. 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed out of
the proceeds of the Grant shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and
corruption as defined in paragraph 1.16(a) of said Guidelines and the contract provisions set
out in paragraph 1.16(e) of said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a
foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given
reasonable time for registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint venture
or sub-contract part of the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition
for submitting bids or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be made available,
by mail or in person, to all international bidders who are willing to pay the required fee.
3. 
No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. 
Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days
from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents,
whichever is later, to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the
Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5. 
Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and
evaluated using post-qualification.
6. 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate
and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7. 
Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or guarantee from
a reputable bank or other reputable financial institution and shall without exception follow
the form provided for this purpose in the bidding documents.
8. 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
19 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
9. 
Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if
they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law, and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-borrower.
20 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
APPENDIX
Section L Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"BAPPENAS" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower's National
Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Community Group" means a group established by a decision letter (surat keputusan) of the
LPSTK with the agreement of the respective Marine and Fisheries District Office (Dinas).
5. 
"Coral Resources Management Plan" means any of the plans (rencana pengelolaan terumbu
karang or RPTK) developed by villages of the COREMAP districts under the activities
financed by Credit 3910-IND of the International Development Association, Loan 4740-IND
of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and GEF TF053350-IND of
the Bank as Trustee of the Global Environmental Facility.
6. 
"COREMAP" means the Borrower's national program designed to protect, rehabilitate and
achieve sustainable use of coral reefs and associated ecosystems.
7. 
"COREMAP Approach" is a system designed by the Borrower of community management in
coastal villages to promote community-based management and control over the coastal
resources in a decentralized manner.
8. 
"CTI" means the Coral Triangle Initiative supported by the Republic of Indonesia, Malaysia,
the Phillipines, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands and Timor Leste.
9. 
"DINAS" means each local government (kabupaten, kota or province) marine and fisheries
office.
10. 
"District" means Kabupaten an administrative subdivision of a Province.
11. 
"District and National MCAs" means the following national level and district level Marine
Conservation Areas: KKPNITNP Laut Sawu (NTT), KKPNflWP Laut Banda (Maluku),
KKPN/TWP Padaido (Papua), KKPNfIWP Kapoposang (Sulsel), KKPN/SAP Aru Tenggara
(Maluku), KKPN/SAP Raya Ampat (Papua Barat), KKPD/Kabupaten Pangkep (Sulsel),
KKPD/Kabupaten Selayar (Sulsel) Gusung and Kayuadi, KKPD/Kabupaten Kepulauan Raja
Ampat (Papua Barat), and KKPD/Kabupaten Biak Numfor (Papua).
12. 
"District Association" means the District level association of village coral resources
management committees (Lembaga Pengelola Sumberdaya Terumbu Karang-LPSTK) to be
upgraded to District level association of village coastal resources management committees
under Part 3.2(b) of the Project
21 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
13. 
"EAFM" means eco-system based approach to fisheries management.
14. 
"Eligible Beneficiaries" means the persons defined in the Environmental and Social
Safeguards Framework and any additional persons identified in the SEA Development
Manual who can form part of a community group and benefit from the activities under Part
3.2 of the Project.
15. 
"Eligible District" means any of the Selected Districts which has met the eligibility criteria
set forth in the SEA Development Manual to benefit from the activities under Part 3.2 of the
Project.
16. 
"Eligibility Criteria" means the criteria for the selection of activities to be developed as SEAs
under Part 3.2 of the Project to be set forth in the SEA Development Manual.
17. 
"Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework" means the Borrower's environmental
and social safeguards framework, dated October 13, 2013 and agreed with the Bank, setting
out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures to eliminate any adverse
environmental and/or social impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project, offset
them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, including (i)
environmental and social screening requirements and processes (including a negative list of
activities which shall not be financed under the Project), (ii) the environmental management
framework (which includes the requirements for the preparation of environmental
management plans), (iii) the land acquisition and resettlement policy framework (which
includes the requirements for the preparation of land acquisition and action plans for access
restriction), and (iii) the indigenous peoples planning framework (which includes the
requirements for the preparation of indigenous peoples plans.
18. 
"Executing Agency" means the agency in charge of the overall coordination of the Project.
19. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
20. 
"Governance and Anti-Corruption Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan included in the
Project Implementation Manual designed to integrate the contents of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines and to give effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions, measures
and policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its forms under the
Project, including: enhanced information disclosure provisions; civil society oversight
provisions; and a complaint handling mechanism; and an appropriate regime of sanctions and
remedies, as applicable to each part of the Project (including each Subproject), as the
Governance and Anti-Corruption Action Plan may be updated from time to time by written
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank (as some of these expressions are defined
hereafter).
21. 
"Grant" means a grant given to a Selected Community Group under Part 3.2 of the Project.
22. 
"Grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower, through MMAF, and a
Community Group for the carrying out of a Subproject.
22 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
23. 
"Implementing Agency" means an agency in charge of the implementation of a part or parts
of the Project.
24. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental costs arising under the Project
on account of local contractual support staff salaries; travel and other travel-related
expenditures; equipment rental and maintenance; vehicle operation, maintenance and repair;
office rental and maintenance; materials and supplies; bank fees; and utilities and
communications expenses, but excluding salaries and honoraria of officials and staff of the
Borrower.
25. 
"Keppres" means Keputusan Presiden, a Presidential Decree of the Borrower.
26. 
"LIPI" means Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia, the Borrower's Indonesian Institute of
Sciences created pursuant to Keppres 1/1986, or any successor thereto.
27. 
"LPSTK" means lembaga pengelola sumberdaya terumbu karang, a village coral resources
management committee established by a village head.
28. 
"Marine and Fisheries District Office (Dinas)" means a division of the District government
which is responsible for marine and fisheries affairs at the District level.
29. 
"MCAs" means marine conservation areas.
30. 
"MCS" means monitoring, control and surveillance.
31. 
"Ministry of Finance" and "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, and any
successor thereto.
32. 
"MMAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries, and any successor
thereto.
33. 
"Part" means a part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
34. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
35. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual dated January 17, 2014, acceptable to
the Borrower and the Bank, to be used by the Borrower in implementing the Project, meeting
the requirements of Section I.A.7 of this Agreement, and such expression includes all
schedules and annexes to said manual, as such Project Implementation Manual may be
amended or updated from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank and the
Borrower.
36. 
"Project Management Office" means the central unit for overall Project management,
supervision, accounting and reporting, to be housed in MMAF.
37. 
"Province" means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower's territory at the first level
below the national leveL
23 of 23 
Loan No. 8336-ID
38. 
"Respective Provinces" means the provinces of East Nusa Tenggara, South Sulawesi,
Southeast Sulawesi, West Papua, and Papua.
39. 
"Scholarships" means the reasonable cost tuition, travel and subsistence of graduate students
under Part 1.4(c) of the Project.
40. 
"SEA" means sustainable enterprise alliance, an alliance of a community group and a private
entity.
41. 
"SEA Development Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower,
through MMAF, in a manner acceptable to the Bank for Community Groups to receive funds
under Part 3.2 of the Project.
42. 
"Selected District" means each and any of the districts of Sikka, Selayar, Pangkep, Buton,
Wakatobi, Raja Ampat, and Biak, and "Selected Districts" means more than one Selected
District.
43. 
"Selected Fisheries Management Area" means any of the following two fishery management
areas (wilayah pengelolaan perikanan): WPP 715 and WPP 718.
44. 
"Selected Community Group" means a Community Group which has been selected following
the provisions set forth in the SEA Development Manual to receive a grant under Part 3.2 of
the Project.
45. 
"Subproject" means a subproject presented by a community group to work with a private
entity in a sustainable enterprise alliance which will be reviewed by the Borrower, through
MMAF, as a possible recipient of a Grant under Part 3.2 of the Project.
46. 
"Training and Workshops" means Project-related reasonable expenditures related to the
carrying out of training and workshop activities, including purchase and publication of
materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and travel and subsistence of trainees.
47. 
"Zoning Plan" means rencana zonasi, the plan that Districts and Provinces need to develop
as required under the Borrower's Law 27/2007 as amended to date.
