OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS ,
LOAN NUMBER 8380-GE
Loan Agreement
(Second Regional and Municipal Infrastructure Development Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
PV6T-Sk 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8380-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
I 1; 
,2014, between GEORGIA
("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1,01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreeient.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amounit of thirty million United States Dollars
(US$30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the propeeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borr6wer shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in ac ordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirt' days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in Order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the pr1incipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Varihble Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishmnent of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate !r the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested porsuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
-3-
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension qonsists namely of the following, that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legitlation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to offect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists namely of the following, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectivepess consist of the following, namely that,
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Ministry of Finance and the
Ministry for Regional Development anil Infrastructure on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of namely of the following, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly au.thorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995-32-2261461
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telbx: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
249423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By
Author 
dRepresentative
Name:00 
(X
Title: 
-k ( 
\y 1(9
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency and reliability of
targeted municipal services and infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Infrastructure Investment
1. 
Provision of financing:
(a) 
on a credit basis, to selected LSGs to finance Investment Subprojects for
the rehabilitation and expansion of priority municipal services and
infrastructure needs on a sustainable basis; through the carrying out of
works and provision of goods; and
(b) 
on a grant basis, to selected L$Gs to finance Investment Subprojects for
selected municipal services and infrastructure projects, through the
carrying out of works and provision of goods.
2. 
Preparation of feasibility studies, engineering designs, construction supervision,
monitoring and evaluation activities for Investment Subprojects, through the
provision of consultants' services and Training.
Part B: Institutional Development
I. 
Improving the institutional capacity and performance of LSGs in: (a) asset
management planning; (b) project cycle management; and (c) fiscal discipline
and accounting, through the provision of goods, consultants' services and
Training.
2. 
Improving 
the institutional 
capacity 
and 
performance 
of the 
Project
Implementing Entity in: (a) technical appraisal; (b) credit risk management; and
(c) fiduciary functions, through the provision of consultants' services and
Training.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I 
Implementation Arrangeoents
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank, said
manual to provide key instruments for the execution and coordination of the
Project, including: (a) procurement and financial management procedures;
(b) eligibility criteria for Participating LSGs and Investment Subprojects;
(c) terms and conditions for Investment Subproject Financing; (d) procurement
and implementation of Investment Subprojects; (e) the requirements and
procedures for carrying out the Environmental Screening and Environmental
Impact Assessments and for implementing such Environmental Management
Plans for the selected Investment Subprojects; and (f) the staffing, management
and responsibilities of the Project Implementing Entity.
2. 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain the supervisory board of the Project Implementing
Entity, chaired by the Prime Minister of Georgia. The functions of said Board
shall include, inter alia: (a) overall supervision of the implementation of the
Project; (b) inter-agency coordination to achieve the Project objectives; and (c)
review and approval of the annual work programs' budgets and reports for the
operation of the Project Implementing Entity.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity, on a non-refundable
basis, under a subsidiary agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the
Ministry for Regional Development and Infrastructure on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the
Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement").
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.
-7-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of an
Environmental Screening, as defined in the Operations Manual, shall be taken by
the Project Implementing Entity in a timely manner for all Investment
Subprojects, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to include adequate
information on the carrying out of such measures as part of the reporting
requirements outlined in the Operations Manual. The Borrower shall ensure that
the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessments and develop the Environmental Management Plans in a
timely manner for all Investment Subprojects requiring such assessments and/or
planning and shall provide and maintain adequate information on the carrying out
of such Environmental and Social Impact Assessments and implementing such
Environmental Management Plans as part of the supervision responsibilities
referred to in paragraph A.] of this Section. 
For Investment Subprojects
determined to be eligible for financing under the Project, completion of
Environmental and Social Screening and preparation and disclosure of, and
stakeholder consultation on the Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to
the Bank shall be required prior to commencement of any works.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that for any activity to be undertaken under the
Project involving the involuntary acquisition of land or the temporary or
permanent involuntary resettlement or displacement of the occupants or owners
of such land, a Resettlement Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank shall be
prepared, completed and fully implemented by the Project Implementing Entity
in 
accordance with the 
Resettlement 
Policy Framework 
prior to the
commencement of any works.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish and
implement, throughout the Project implementation, an easily accessible grievance
redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address feedback and grievances
relating to the Project as set forth in the Operations Manual.
Section II 
Project Monitorine Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
-8-
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have the Project
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover
the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11 and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth
in below:
(i) 
"Open competitive procedures" (i.e. "public tender") shall be
the default rule. A single envelope procedure shall be used for
the submission of goods, works, or non-consulting services.
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.
Advertisements published in foreign language newspapers shall
be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum in number of
days for bids preparation and submission.
(iii) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
If
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders
for reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources to
successfully perform the contract (e.g., mandatory membership
in 
professional 
organizations, 
classification, 
etc). 
Post-
qualification shall be conducted to verify that the bidder has the
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract.
(iv) 
Government-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are
legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
law and are not a dependent agency of the Government.
Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid
and performance security requirements as other bidders.
(v) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank's sample
bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents, for
the procurement of goods, works, or non-consulting services,
- 10 -
Procurement Method
and such documents shall contain draft contract and conditions
of contract including clauses on fraud and corruption, audit and
publication of award, all acceptable to the Bank.
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline
for submission of bids. 
Bidder's representatives shall be
permitted to attend the bid opening.
(vii) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be
requested without the prior approval of the Bank.
(viii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria
expressed in monetary terms as defined in the bidding
documents, no merit point system and no domestic preference
shall be used in the evaluation of bids. Contracts shall be
awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the lowest
evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiations shall
be carried out prior to contract award.
(ix) 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen
(18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment
clause.
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. All bids
shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's
prior concurrence.
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) 
Single-Source Selection of consulting firms
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1-5.5 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category,
-12-
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and works, under:
(a) Part A.I(a) of the 
12.925,000 
40%
Project
13,000,000 
85%
(b) Part A.1(b) of the
Project
(2) 
Consultants' 
services, 
2.000,000 
80%
Training 
and 
Incremental
Operating Costs under Part
A.2 of the Project
(3) 
Goods, 
consultants' 
2,000,000 
22.8%
services and Training under
Part B of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
75,000 
Amount 
payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2014, for
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2024 
3.33%
through November 15, 2038
On May 15, 2039 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the Frst Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 14-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 15-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Co-financier" means Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation.
4. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of five million United States Dollars to be
provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project.
5. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
7. 
"Environmental 
and Social Screening" means a mandatory review of all
proposed Investment Subprojects undertaken with the purpose of categorizing
them by expected environmental risks and impacts, filtering out proposals
grossly detrimental for the environment, identifying a need for preparing a
Resettlement Action Plan and determining appropriate extent and type of
Environmental 
and Social Assessment to be applied to the Investment
Subprojects accepted for further processing.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means a study carried
out for the selected Investment Subprojects to identify and assess their potential
environmental impacts, evaluate alternatives, and design appropriate mitigation,
management, and monitoring measures.
9. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means a document developed for
an Investment Subproject (as hereinafter defined), which details the measures to
be taken during its implementation and operation to eliminate or offset adverse
environmental impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as the
actions needed to implement these measures.
- 16-
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section 11 of this Appendix.
I 1. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable and necessary incremental
expenses incurred by the Project Implementing Entity with respect to Project
implementation, management and monitoring, including the costs of support staff
salaries (excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil service staff). communication,
editing, printing and publication, translation, vehicle operation and maintenance,
bank charges, local travel costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, utilities and
supplies, based on a semi-annual budget agreed with the Bank.
12. 
"Investment Financing Agreement" means an agreement entered into between a
Participating LSG and the Project Implementing Entity for the purposes of the
Project, in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual,
13. 
"Investment Subproject" means an eligible subproject to be carried out for the
benefit of a Participating LSG (as hereinafter defined), utilizing the proceeds of
Investment Subproject Financing (as hereinafter defined).
14. 
-Investment Subproject Financing" means a financing made or proposed to be
made out of the proceeds of the Loan by the Project Implementing Entity (as
hereinafter defined), for an Investment Subproject.
15. 
"Lari" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
16. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any
successor thereto.
17. 
"Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure" means the Borrower's
Ministry of Regional Development and infrastructure or any successor thereto.
18. 
"Operations Manual" means the manual prepared by the Project Implementing
Entity (as hereinafter defined) dated March 31, 2014: (a) specifying the
managerial, financial, administrative, engineering, environmental and social
policies and procedures of the Project Implementing Entity (as hereinafter
defined) for the execution of the Project and the eligibility criteria for selection of
Investment Subproject(s) and Participating LSG(s) (as hereinafter defined); and
(b) including the "Environmental and Social Management Framework" which
provides the requirements 
and procedures for the carrying out of the
Environmental and Social Screening, and Environmental and Social Impact
Assessments and the preparation of the Environmental Management Plans for the
respective selected Investment Subproject under the Project, as such Operations
Manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
17-
19. 
"Participating LSG" mean the Local Self Government established and operating
under Organic 
Law (Local 
Self-Government 
Code) 
No. 1958-11-b 
of
February 5, 2014, on Local Self-Government, which have been selected for the
carrying out of Investment Subproject(s) under Part A of the Project in
accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operations Manual.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's procurement plan
for the Project, dated March 19, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
22. 
"Project 
Implementing Entity" means the Municipal Development Fund
established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 294 of the President of Georgia,
dated June 7, 1997, as amended to date.
23, 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Charter of the Municipal
Development Fund established pursuant to Decree No. 118 of the Government of
Georgia dated July 23, 2005, as amended to date.
24. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a resettlement action plan for a site
specific resettlement; to be prepared and implemented in a manner fully
consistent with the Resettlement Policy Framework, and "Resettlement Action
Plans" means said Plans, collectively.
25. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the resettlement policy framework,
satisfactory to the Bank, dated March 24, 2014, prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity and setting forth, inter alia: (i) the description of areas
covered by the Project; (ii) the legal basis and screening process for land
acquisition, resettlement and land use in connection with works and construction
activities to be carried out under the Project; (iii) the resettlement principles and
entitlements of Project affected people based on different categories of impact;
(iv) the procedures for valuation, compensation and other assistance provided to
the affected people, including the grievance process; and (v) the responsibilities,
procedures and requirements for the development and implementation of site
specific Resettlement Action Plans.
26. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section .B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
27. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred by the Project Implementing Entity in
connection with carrying out training activities under Part B of the Project,
including travel costs and per diem for local trainees, study tours, workshops,
conferences, and non-degree fellowships, rental of facilities and equipment and
training materials and related supplies based on a semi-annual budget agreed
with the Bank.
