OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8384-PL
Loan Agreement
(First Resilience and Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A,we)k 
1 
201_
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
A w4 Z 
, 2014 entered into between REPUBLIC OF
POLAND ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred million Euro (C700,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions on
Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such
information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to
time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
ul. Swietokrzyska 12
00-916 Warszawa
Republic of Poland
Cable: 
Facsimile:
MINF 
(48) 22 6943070
Poland
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at W amw, 
Ofa\O 
,as 
of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
A064Zl
Title: 
A 
c44;&
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
K
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Hanh, 
G 
AAV
Title:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Pro2ram
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program
include the following:
1. 
The Borrower has enacted: (a) an amendment dated November 8, 2013 to the Public
Finance Act to introduce a permanent fiscal rule limiting growth of public expenditures
to trend GDP growth to foster compliance with its obligations deriving from the Treaty
on the Functioning of the EU in the area of budgetary policy; and (b) the Budget Law for
2014 in line with the new permanent fiscal rule as set forth in the Public Finance Act..
2. 
The Borrower has enacted the amendments dated November 8, 2013 to the Law on
Value Added Taxes (VAT) to defer the reduction in VAT rates in the period of 2014-16
to support fiscal consolidation.
3. 
The Borrower has enacted an amendment dated November 8, 2013 to the Public Finance
Act implementing a fiscal rule for local governments to ensure debt sustainability at the
local level and effective absorption of European Union funds.
4. 
The Borrower has enacted amendments dated July 12, 2013 to the Labor Code to
increase the flexibility of the labor market by extending the calculation period for
employees' working time.
5. 
The Borrower has: (a) implemented the first professions deregulation tranche through
enactment of the Law Amending Laws on Access to Certain Professions thereby
deregulating access to fifty one (51) professions; and (b) approved, through a Decision of
its Council of Ministers, the draft Law on the Easing of Access to Certain Regulated
Professions and the draft Law Amending Laws on Access Conditions to Certain
Professions for the second and third professions deregulation tranches.
6. 
The Borrower has enacted amendments dated May 10, 2013 to the Law on Early
Childcare to facilitate parents' re-joining labor force.
7. 
The Borrower, by way of resolution of its Council of Ministers, has approved Poland's
Enterprise Development Program (EDevP) to create clearer institutional arrangements
and increase support for early stage innovation and technological startups to enhance
innovation through focused support programs in this area.
8. 
The Borrower, through a Decision of its Council of Ministers dated February 11, 2014,
has approved a concept ("assumptions") of a new General Restructuring Law dealing
with insolvency and restructuring in the corporate sector.
9. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Economy, has submitted to the Council of
Ministers Standing Committee, a draft Law on Facilitating Access to Business Activity
(alternatively referred to as "Fourth Deregulation Law') and through a Decision of the
_I;-
Council of Ministers dated January 8, 2014, has approved draft amendments to the Law
on the National Court Register aimed at improving business environment through
streamlined procedures, including port clearance, business startups and enterprise
transactions
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche,
from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Euro)
(1)Single 
700,000,000
Withdrawal Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT 
700,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out
by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2022
Through November 15, 2041 
2,44%
On May 15, 2042 
2,40%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-7-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-8-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Budget Law" means the Borrower's law on budget for 2014 dated January 24, 2014
(Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2014, item 162).
2. 
"Council of Ministers" means the Borrower's council of ministers established pursuant to
the Borrower's law on the council of ministers "Ustawa o Radzie Ministr6w" dated
August 8, 1996 (consolidated text Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2012,
item 392) and subsequent amendments.
3. 
"Enterprise Development Program" means the Borrower's program adopted by way of
resolution of the Council of Ministers dated April 8, 2014.
4. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
-9-
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
5. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"General Restructuring Law" means the Borrower's law on insolvency and corporate
restructuring to be adopted by the Borrower's Parliament.
7. 
"Labor Code" means the Borrower's law on labor dated June 26, 1974 (consolidated text
- Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 1998, number 21, item 94) 
and
subsequent amendments.
8. 
"Law on Value Added Taxes" means the Borrower's law on value added taxes dated
March 11, 2004 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2011, number 177, item
1054) and subsequent amendments.
9. 
"Law Amending Laws on Access to Certain Professions" means the Borrower's law
deregulating access to certain professions dated June 13, 2013 (Journal of Laws of the
Republic of Poland of 2013, item 829).
10. 
"Law on Early Childcare" means the Borrower's law on care for children under the age
of three, dated February 4, 2011 (consolidated text - Journal of Laws of the Republic of
Poland of 2013, item 1457) and subsequent amendments.
-10-
11. 
"Law on National Court Register" means the Borrower's law on the National Court
Register dated August 20, 1997 (consolidated text - Journal of Laws of the Republic of
Poland of 2013, item 1203) and subsequent amendments.
12. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry in charge of finance or any
successor thereto.
13. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i) enhance
macroeconomic resilience; (ii) strengthen labor market flexibility and employment
promotion; and (iii) improve private sector competitiveness and innovation, as such
program is set forth or referred to in the letter dated April 8, 2014 from the Borrower to
the Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
14. 
"Public Finance Act" means the Borrower's law on public finance "Ustawa o finansach
publicznych " dated August 27, 2009 (consolidated text - Journal of Laws of the Republic
of Poland of 2013, item 885) and subsequent amendments.
15. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
16. 
"Treaty on the Functioning of the EU" means the international treaty between the
European Union member states which organizes the functioning of the European Union
and determines the areas of, delimitation of, and arrangements for exercising its
competences.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is not applicable to this Agreement.
2. 
Sections 2.02 (Special Commitment by the Bank), 2.04 (Designated Accounts) 2.05
(Eligible Expenditures), 2.06 (Financing Taxes), 2.07 (Refinancing Preparation
Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee) and 2.08 (Reallocation) are not applicable to this
Agreement.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), 5.02 (Performance under the Loan
Agreement and Project Agreement), 5.03 (Provision ofFunds and other Resources), 5.04
(Insurance), 5.05 (Land Acquisition), paragraph (a) of Section 5.06 (Use of Goods, Works
and Services; Maintenance of Facilities), 5.07 (Plans, Documents, Records), 5.09
(Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits) and paragraph (b) of Section 5.11
(Visits) are not applicable to this Agreement.
4. 
Paragraph (b) of Section 5.08 is not applicable to this Agreement and paragraph (c) of
Section 5.08 is modified to read as follows:
-11-
Section 5.08. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
5. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
-12-
