OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF016958
Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement
(Renewable Energy Integration Project)
between
T0RKiYE ELEKTRIK ILETIM A.$.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
Dated 
U LI 
O 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF016958
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
30 
to 
, 2014, entered into between TORKYE
ELEKTRIK 
ILETIM 
A.$. 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("World Bank"), acting not in its
individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Clean
Technology Fund ("CTF").
WHEREAS: (A) 
the Republic of Turkey ("Guarantor") and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement, has requested the CTF to assist in the financing of Parts I
and 2 of the Project;
(B) 
by an agreement ("CTF Guarantee Agreement") of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the World Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the
Loan Payment obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
(C) 
by an agreement of even date herewith ("IBRD Loan Agreement"), the
World Bank has agreed to make a loan ("IBRD Loan") to the Borrower in the amount of
two hundred and seventeen million six hundred thousand Euros (EUR 217,600,000), to
assist in financing the Project and the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the IBRD Loan
Payment obligations of the Borrower under the IBRD Loan as set forth in the IBRD
Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith; and
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standalrd Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
Ioan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million United States
Dollars ($50,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing Parts I and 2 of the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the CTF trust find, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of
the Standard Conditions, shall be equal to forty-five one-hundredth of one
percent (0.45%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Management
Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article 11 of the Standard Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the World Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that the Projeot is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the
IBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled or
waived by the World Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty days (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
Article V
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its General Manager.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Tirkiye Elektrik letim A.S.
Genel MOdOrltigil
Nasuh Akar Mahallesi
Turkocagi Caddesi
No: 12 PK 06100 Balgat/Cankaya
Ankara, Turkey
Facsimile:
(312) 222-8160
5.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above
written.
TORKYE ELEKTRIK ILETIM A.S.
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
(VL
Title: 
(",CA 4 CA
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the
Clean Technology Fund
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
tC
Title: 
CLK. 
(I 
C
-4-
SCHEDULE ]
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to assist the Republic of Turkey in meeting its
increased power demand by strengthening the transmission system and facilitating large-
scale renewable energy generation.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part . Development of transmission infrastructure
Construction and equipping of highly digitalized substations, namely Can Basin
380 kV, Izmir Basin 380 kV, and Vize Basin 380 kV substations and any other
substations agreed with the World Bank, together with associated grid connection
structures for evacuation of wind power in the Selected Provinces.
Part 2. Smart-grid investments
Carry out investments that enable the Borrower to monitor the transmission grid
network status in real-time and to operate the entire network reliably and securely,
including:
(a) 
Upgrading the hardware and software of the existing Supervisory Control and
Data Acquisition ("SCADA") system at the National Control Center, the
Emergency National Control Center and nine (9) Regional Control Centers and
addition of a Renewable Energy Resource ("RER") Operator Desk on the
SCADA system.
(b) 
Installation of Remote Terminal Units ("RTU") in substations and power plants
to facilitate acquisition of real-time transmission network data.
(c) 
Installation of digital protection relays in the power grid to accelerate fault
clearing and minimize network disturbances and outage area.
(d) 
Installation of shunt reactors in the bulk-transmission network to control load
flow and to secure appropriate system voltage.
-5-
Part 3. Lapseki 2-Sutluce 2 submarine power cable
Construction of a second double-circuit submarine cable across the Dardanelles
Strait.
Part 
Strengthening of transmission networks
Carry out investments to strengthen the transmission networks, including:
(a) 
Construction of an underground cable to connect the Yeni Ambarli substation to
the Yeni Bosna substation.
(b) 
Construction of four (4) 380/154/33 kV substations and related facilities in the
province of Istanbul, Antalya and Urgup.
(c) 
Construction of four (4) 154/33 kV substations and related facilities in the
provinces Istanbul and Antalya.
(d) 
Construction of four (4) 154 kV underground cables in the provinces of Istanbul
and Izmir.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Institutional and Other Arraniements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, until completion of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination Unit within its Research,
Planning and Coordination Department with responsibility to oversee and
coordinate Project implementation and with necessary and appropriate staffing
and budgetary resources satisfactory to the World Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines..
C. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall implement the Environmental Review Framework Document
("ERFD"), and before the Borrower commences any work or installation under
the Project or the construction (regardless of financing source) of access roads
from the substations under Part I of the Project to the existing main roads and
energy transmission lines from the substations under Part I of the Project to the
national grid, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
screen for impacts from the proposed work, installation and construction,
including impacts on the environment, physical cultural resources, and
natural habitats, all in accordance with the principles and procedures set
forth in the ERFD;
(b) 
prepare an environment management plan (including management of
impact on environment, physical cultural resources, and natural habitat,
as the case may be) for said work, installation or construction in
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the ERFD;
(c) 
thereafter, provide said plan to the World Bank for review; and
(d) 
implement such plan as shall have been accepted by the World Bank as
being satisfactory, as well as implement the Lapseki 2-Sutluce 2 EMP.
-7-
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
when carrying out the Project and related activities, in accordance with
the provisions of World Bank's Operation Policy 4.12, the Borrower
shall take all necessary actions to minimize, to the extent possible, any
involuntary taking of land; and
(b) 
for this purpose, whenever Project activities (including construction of
substations under Part I of the Project and the interface points for the
Lapseki 2-Sutluce 2 submarine power cable under Part 3 of the Project)
or construction by the Borrower (regardless of financing source) of
access roads from the substations under Part I of the Project to the
existing main roads and the first energy transmission lines from the
substations under Part I of the Project to the national grid would give
rise to Project Affected Persons, before starting any work, installation or
construction, the Borrower shall:
(i) 
apply the LAPF and prepare, and cause to be prepared, a land
acquisition action plan in accordance with the principles and
procedures set forth in the LAPF;
(ii) 
thereafter, provide said plan to the World Bank for review; and
(iii) 
implement 
such 
land acquisition 
action 
plan (including
disclosure of the plan) as shall have been accepted by the World
Bank as being satisfactory.
3. 
(a) 
With respect to any transmission line to be constructed by a private
developer for connection of a wind power project to any of the
substations to be constructed or constructed under. Part I of the Project,
the Borrower shall during Project implementation:
(i) 
make the following information available in a timely and
documented manner at a place accessible to land owners whose
land (which term includes any interest in land, such as an
easement). may be affected by said transmission line: (A) that
land owners may negotiate and agree with said private developer
for use of the affected land by the private developer or decline
such offer for use, in which event the land may be acquired by
the Borrower and the Borrower shall apply the provisions of the
LAPF; (B) a copy of the LAPF, together with a simplified
information package that sets out the processes, procedures and
compensation 
available 
under the 
LAPF; and 
(C) 
the
mechanism (including contact information) for land owners to
seek clarification on any of the foregoing;
(ii) 
apply the LAPF in the event that the Borrower acquires the land
for use by the private developer: (A) where the land owner has
declined the offer of the private developer or (B) where the
private developer requests the Borrower to acquire the land for
purposes of constructing said transmission line; and
(iii) 
carry out spot checks on transmission lines constructed by
private developers and the spot checks shall: (A) determine the
terms and conditions of the agreement between the private
developer and the land owner for use of the affected land by the
private developer; 
and (B) report on and document any
unresolved claims by any land owner and the status of the claim.
(b) 
During Project implementation, the Borrower shall:
(i) 
consult with the Bank when considering transmission lines for
connection to any of the substations to be constructed or
constructed under Part I of the Project and finalize the routing
studies for the transmission lines by not interfering with the No
Go Places defined in the ESDD report; and
(ii) 
furnish to the World Bank the list (including site locations and
maps) of wind power projects other than the Planned WPPs that
meet the criteria for connection to any of the substations to be
constructed under Part I of the Project and which list shall be
furnished to the World Bank when the Borrower provides such
list to the Electricity Market Regulatory Agency during the pre-
licensing stage.
4. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the ERFD, LAPF, the Lapseki 2-Sutluce 2 EMP, EMPs and
LAAPs and any provision thereof, shall not be amended, suspended,
abrogated, terminated or waived or permitted to be amended, suspended,
abrogated, terminated or waived, except with the prior written consent of
the World Bank;
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the World Bank,
the implementation of any of the ERFD, LAPF, the Lapseki 2-Sutluce 2
EMP, EMPs, and LAAPs and the achievement of the objectives of said
frameworks and plans; and
-9-
(c) 
include in the Project Report, which is to be prepared under Section ILA
paragraph I of this Schedule, the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities with respect to the plans referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above.
Section H1. 
Project Monitoring. Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1I 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
.-
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have:
(a) 
the Financial Statements (for the Project and as defined in the Standard
Conditions) audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b)
of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period; and
(b) 
its entity financial statements audited in accordance with standards set
out in of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions. Each audit of such
entity financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of
the Borrower and be furnished to the World Bank not later than eight (8)
months after the end of such period
- 10 -
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods (including supply and
installation) and non-consulting services required for Parts I and 2 of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11
and III of the Procurement Guidelines.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods (including supply and installation) and non-consulting services
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used
for procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Direct Contracting; and (b) Shopping.
C. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1, 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article Il of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and
(c) such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Loan Allocated 
be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Value Added Tax)
(1) Goods (including supply
and 
installation) 
and 
non- 
50,000,000 
50%
consulting services for Parts I
and 2 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the World Bank has received payment in
full of the Management Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
March 20, 2014, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); or
(c) 
for any payment for Value Added Taxes levied by or in the territory of
the Member Country in respect of goods and non-consulting services.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
I. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
(i) 
produce, for each of its Fiscal Years, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 35% for the Fiscal Year 2015 and in
- 12-
each 
succeeding Fiscal Year of the Borrower's capital
expenditures during the Fiscal Year concerned;
(ii) 
maintain, beginning with the Fiscal Year 2015, a ratio of current
assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.0; and
(iii) 
ensure that the Borrower's net revenues shall be at least 1.5
times in 2015 and each succeeding Fiscal Year, the estimated
maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any
such Fiscal Year on all debt of the Borrower.
(b) 
If any fiscal projections show that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph I for the
Borrower's Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all measures necessary on its part in order to meet such
requirements.
(c) 
For the purposes of this paragraph 1:
(i) 
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference
between:
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations, 
customer 
deposits 
and 
customer
contributions in aid of construction, net non-operating
income and any reduction in working capital other than
cash; and
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including
administration, license fees, adequate maintenance and
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision
for depreciation and other non-cash operating charges
and income taxes), debt service requirements, all cash
dividends and other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures, increase in working capital other than
cash.
(ii) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
- 13-
(iii) 
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference
between current assets, excluding cash, and current liabilities at
the end of each Fiscal Year.
(iv) 
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted 
into cash within twelve (12) 
months, including
accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and
prepaid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses
within the next Fiscal Year.
(v) 
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will
become due and payable or could under circumstances then
existing be called for payment within twelve (12) months,
including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii) 
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to operations, averaged over a three (3) year
period covering the year concerned and the year preceding and
the year succeeding such year.
(viii) 
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within
twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, marketable
securities, inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable
to operating expenses within the next Fiscal Year.
(ix) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(x) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations and net non-operating income; and
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including
license fees, administration, adequate maintenance, taxes
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
- 14 -
for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and
interest and other charges on debt.
(xi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this paragraph I it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the World
Bank.
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the
Loan repayable
(expressed as a
percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15, commencing October 
5%
15, 2024, to and including April 15, 2034.
- 16-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"ERFD" means the Environmental Review Framework Document satisfactory to
the World Bank, and disclosed on the Borrower's website on March 4, 2014, and
the World Bank's Infoshop on March 5, 2014, which framework sets out, inter
alia policies and procedures for: the preliminary screening (including impact on
physical cultural resources and natural habitat and exclusion of investments
classified as Category A) of proposed Project activities; preparation of
environmental 
assessment 
and environment 
management 
plans therefor;
consultation 
and 
disclosure 
and 
monitoring 
and 
reporting 
during the
implementation of the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior concurrence of the World Bank.
4. 
"EMP" means a site-specific environmental management plan prepared for
specific investment activities under the Project in accordance with the
requirements set out in the ERFD and accepted by the World Bank as being
satisfactory; and "EMPs" means, collectively, all such EMPs.
5. 
"ESDD Report" means the Environmental and Social Due Diligence Report
dated September 2013, which sets out the approach and methodology used for
the environmental and social due diligence conducted on the substations to be
constructed under Component I and its associated facilities (access roads and
electric transmission lines) as well as the Planned WPPs, and the results of the
due diligence.
6. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting on January I and
ending on December 31 of each year.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"IBRD Loan Agreement" means an agreement of even date with this Agreement
between the Borrower and the World Bank pursuant to which the World Bank
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in the amount of two hundred and
seventeen million six hundred thousand Euros (EUR 217,600,000), to assist in
financing the Project.
- 17 -
9. 
"LAAP" means a site-specific land acquisition action plan prepared for specific
investment activities under the Project in accordance with the requirements set
out in the LAPF and accepted by the World Bank as being satisfactory; and
"LAAPs" mean, collectively, all such LAAPs.
10. 
"LAPF" means the Land Acquisition Policy Framework, satisfactory to the
World Bank and disclosed on the Borrower's website on March 19, 2014, and in
the World Bank's Infoshop on March 19, 2014, which sets out the policies and
procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of
Project Affected Persons, preparation of resettlement action plans therefor,
consultation, disclosure, grievance redress, and monitoring and reporting during
Project implementation, as said framework may be revised from time to time
with the prior agreement of the World Bank.
I1:, 
"Lapseki 2-Sutluce 2 EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan for 380
kv Lapseki 2-Sutluce 2 Submarine Cable dated September 2013, satisfactory to
the World Bank and disclosed locally on October 13, 2013 and in the World
Bank's Infoshop on November 13, 2013.
12. 
"Planned WPPs" means collectively, the following planned wind power projects,
being developed by the private sector and which will be connected to the
respective substations to be constructed under Part I of the Project:
(a) 
For Canakkale substation: 
Ucpinar, Kocalar and Koru wind power
projects.
(b) 
For Vize Substation: Evrencik, Airres, and Vize 2 wind power projects.
(c) 
For Izmir substation: Bergres and Kinik wind power projects.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated March 21, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of
the Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks
- 18-
and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Project Affected Person" means any of such Project Affected
Persons.
16. 
"Selected Provinces" means the Provinces of Canakkale, Izmir, Kirklareli and
any other provinces selected by the Borrower in agreement with the World Bank.
17. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.
- 19-
