OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8444-PH
Loan Agreement
(Cebu Bus Rapid Transit Project)
between
RE [UBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATI ONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dal ed 
0~&:r6FR- 14 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
66'36F_P- 
, 2014, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DE VELOPMENT ("Bank").
WH4EREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to extend a loan in the
amount of one hundred sixteen million Dollars ($116,000,000) as provided in Section
2.01 of this Agreement, to ass st in financing Parts 1(a)(ii), 1(a)(iii), I(a)(iv), 1(a)(vi),
1(c), 1(e), 3(a), 4, 5(b) and 6 of :he Project; and
(B) the Borrower has a .so requested the Bank, acting as an implementing entity
of the Clean Technology Fund ("CTF") to assist in financing Parts 1(b), 2(a), 2(c) and
5(a) of the Project and the Ban c, acting in such capacity, has agreed to extend a loan to
the Borrower from the CTF for ;uch purpose in the amount of twenty five million Dollars
($25,000,000), pursuant to th. loan agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank ("CTF Loan Agreement");
WHEREAS the Bank ias agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend a loan to the Borrower u)on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
The Borrower and the Bank her -by agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
G ENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditi ns (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral p Lrt of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context r:quires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the m,,anings ascribed to them in the General Conditions and in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this AgriLement, the amount of one hundred sixteen million Dollars
($116,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion n accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), t: assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Projc ct").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Scheduh 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of tho Loan amount. ,
2.04. 
The interest payable )y the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Referen,.e Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the G,.neral Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdr iwn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues f r a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall inste td be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates ai e May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedul 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrowe -may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of t .e Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding f -om a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any pcrtion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding Irom a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spr(!ad to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spr(ad to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any pt rtion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding t y the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any convers on requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the Generd Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
-3-
(c) 
Promptly fol owing the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be )aid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the am unts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
kRTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declart s its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower !hall carry out the Project through the Department of
Transportation and C )mmunications (DOTC) in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation uf on the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrow -r and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Proj,.-ct is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agi eement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Cond tion of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely the
CTF Loan Agreeme it has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effect veness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under it (other than the- effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
4.02 
The Effectiveness Dcadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE N -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Addr,-ss is:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex
Roxas Blvd.
Manila, Philippines
-4-
Facsimile:
(63-2) 523-9: 16
5.03. 
The Bank's Address i ;:
International 3ank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, 3.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable addres,: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, ).C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
0 
/.(WAP/MA
Title:_ 
__
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
u6thorized Representative
Name: 
1MT0700 XA/J1Gf/
Title: -(!&CA1M7ZY 
/!2i,'f/-/PPX&-9
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the 3roject is to improve the overall performance of the urban
passenger transport system ir the Project Corridor in Cebu City in terms of the quality
and level of service, safety, ar d environmental efficiency.
Part 1. 
BRT Infrastructure and System
Design, construction and supervision of BRT infrastructure and systems along
the Project Corridor, includin17:
(a) 
BRT Road 
Infrastructure. 
Development 
of BRT 
road traffic
infrastructure 
including, arrong others, segregated busways, segregation barriers,
sidewalks, cycleways, lands:ape strips, warning and directional signage, advanced
directions signs, carriageway narkings, and associated traffic management infrastructure
(such as pedestrian walkway 3) along the following segments of the Project Corridor:
(i) Cebu Road South (new 3ulacao Terminal-E Mambaling flyover); (ii) Mambaling
Flyover - East of Jones' intersection; 
(iii) Osmena Boulevard (North Bacalso - North
Escario Street); (iv) North E5 cario Street (Osmena Boulevard - Ayala Mall); (v) South
Road properties; and (vi) Ayi la to Talamban and IT Park.
(b) 
Bus Terminals. Construction of bus terminals, including, among others,
feeder terminal and turn roun I facilities, improvements to market areas, and provision of
access and facilities for non-n otorized transport modes.
(c) 
Bus Depots ind Stations. 
Construction of bus depots and stations,
including pedestrian crossing facilities.
(d) 
Land Acquisi :ion and Resettlement. Provision of compensation for land
acquisition and resettlement ielated to the development of BRT infrastructure along the
Project Corridor.
(e) 
Detailed Des gn and Supervision. 
Detailed design and supervision of
works carried out under Part I of the Project.
Part 2. 
Traffic Management
(a) 
Traffic Engiieering and Management. Carrying out of BRT traffic
engineering, and traffic mana3ement along the Project Corridor including, among others,
intersection optimization, parLing management, and development ofjeepney terminals.
-7-
(b) 
Area Traffic Control and Intersection Signal Control. Upgrading of area
traffic and intersection signa control for capacity optimization at key intersections in
Cebu City.
(c) 
Intelligent Transport Systems. 
Development of an intelligent
operational support and corridor traffic control system.
Part 3. BRT Concept Dissemination and Development
(a) 
BRT Concep Development. Carrying out of feasibility studies, training
and capacity building activities to support the nationwide application of BRT in the
territory of the Borrower.
(b) 
Design of M:tro Manila BRT. Carrying out of feasibility studies and
detailed design of the proposed Manila metropolitan BRT system.
Part 4. Urban Realim Enhancements
Carrying out of spec fic activities aimed at integrating BRT transport and land
use development in Cebu City by establishing physical connections from stations and
terminals to major trip attrEctors and generators, including parks and leisure space,
landscaping, and infrastructur- for pedestrians and non-motorized transport.
Part 5. Project Outcome Monitoring
(a) 
Transport Sy stem Demand, Supply and Performance. 
Monitoring of
transport development outcoines of the Project including, among others, measurements
on transport system demand,! upply and performance.
(b) 
Institutional, Environmental, Social, Economic and Capacity Building
Assessments. Monitoring of institutional performance, environmental, 
social and
economic impacts, and capacity development indicators under the Project.
Part 6. Project Man agement
Provision of technic il and operational support for the day-to-day management,
coordination, 
procurement, 
financial 
management, 
environmental 
and 
social
management, including meas ares for mitigation of social or environmental impacts, and
communication of Project act vities.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
National BRT Steering Committee
1 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout implementation of the Project, a
National BRT Steeri-g Committee (NSC) with a mandate, composition and
resources satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Part A, the NSC shall
(a) be chaired by 1he Secretary of the DOTC or his or her designated
representative satisfa-,tory to the Bank, and shall comprise, among others,
representatives of th: Department of Finance (DOF), Department of Public
Works and Highway, (DPWH), Department of Interior and Local Government
(DILG), the Land Tr insportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB),
representatives of local government units where BRT projects are being
implemented or unde - study, and DOTC; and (b) be responsible for, inter alia;
(i) formulating the stiategic directions and plans for developing BRT consistent
with the national tran port plan; (ii) setting policies, guidelines and procedures to
facilitate the implemontation of BRTs including the designation of segregated
right-of-way infrastructure; (iii) coordinating the formulation of rules and
regulations to govei n and regulate the operations of BRT projects, and
(iv) monitoring, evalu ating and reporting on the impact on BRT development
B. 
National Program M anagement Office and Project Implementation Unit
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain, through DOTC, a BRT National Program
Management Office iNPMO) based at the DOTC central office, and a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in Cebu City, all throughout the implementation of
the Project, with suc i offices to have functions and resources set forth in the
Project Implementat on Plan, for the purpose of ensuring the efficient
implementation of the Project.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B, the NPMO
shall: (a) be headed ly an Undersecretary of the DOTC or his or her designated
representative, with a rank of at least Director, satisfactory to the Bank, and
include as members televant DOTC personnel and external experts as required;
and (b) be responsi le for planning and evaluation, resource mobilization,
implementation, ope -ations, monitoring and reporting, and promotion and
communication for th- proper development and operation of BRT in the territory
of the Borrower.
-9-
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B, the PIU shall
be responsible for (a) developing the annual work and financial plans, referenced
in Section I.E. I of Sc iedule 2 of this Agreement, for approval by the NPMO and
NSC, (b) facilitating the administration and coordination of procurement,
financial manageme it, environmental 
and social management 
and other
implementation arran iements, and (c) reporting to the NPMO and the Bank on
all matters pertaining to the implementation of the Project and the use of the
proceeds of the Finan.ing.
4. 
Not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through
the DOTC, shall app int a financial management specialist and a procurement
specialist to the PIU. with functions, qualifications, and terms of reference as
indicated in the Project Implementation Plan.
C. 
Cebu City BRT Leg. l, Financial and Institutional Framework
1. 
The Borrower shall, iot later than June 30, 2016 put in place an overall legal,
financial and institutional framework acceptable to the Bank for the operation
and maintenance of the BRT system in Cebu City, and to this end shall, without
limitation to the forel oing: (a) enter into a contract, no later than September 30,
2017, with a legal er tity to serve as the Cebu City BRT system manager; and
(b) ensure that, no laier than March 31, 2018, the services of one or more legal
entities are contracted to serve as bus operator(s) for the Cebu City BRT.
2. 
The Borrower shall, I brough DOTC, not later than March 31, 2015, enter into a
contract with a Techt ical Support Consultant to support the NPMO and PIU in
project management, echnical support, procurement, monitoring and evaluation.
D. 
Project Implementation Plan
The Borrower shall <arry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements
and procedures set out in the PIP (provided, however, that in case of any conflict
between the arrangements and procedures set out in the PIP and the provisions of
this Agreement, the >rovisions of this Agreement shall prevail), and shall not
amend, abrogate or w aive the PIP or any of its provisions without prior approval
in writing by the Banl-
E. 
Annual Work and F nancial Plans
1 
The Borrower, throu,h the DOTC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
approval, not later th,.n November 15 of each year during the implementation of
the Project, an annual work and financial plan containing all eligible Project
activities and expenditures planned for the following fiscal year of the Borrower,
including the expenditures to be financed by the Borrower under Part 1(d) of the
-10-
Project, and shall ensare that the Project is implemented in accordance with the
approved annual worl and financial plans; provided, however, that in case of any
conflict between the innual work and financial plans and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provi. ions of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
The 
Borrower 
sha 1 not 
make 
or 
allow 
to 
be 
made 
any 
change
to the approved annual work and financial plan without prior approval in writing
by the Bank.
F. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management
1. 
The Borrower, throul h the DOTC, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the EIA, SMP and the RAP in a manner
satisfactory to the Bat k.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph I of this Part F, the Borrower,
through the DOTC, shall ensure that sufficient funds are made available from its
own resources for tho implementation of the RAP, including for compensation
for any land acquisiti( n or resettlement related to the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall not abrogate, amend or waive, or permit to be abrogated,
amended or waived, the EIA, SMP and the RAP or any provision thereof,
without prior approva in writing by the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, throt gh the DOTC, shall monitor and report to the Bank,
including through the Project Reports referred to in Part A of Section II of this
Schedule, the status Df compliance with the EIA, SMP and the RAP, giving
details of: (a) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
implementation of th,- said assessments and plans; and (b) remedial measures
taken or to be taken to address such conditions.
G. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall e isure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti -Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Mon toring Reportin2 and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall n onitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in ac ordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on th e basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set out in
the PIP. Each Projeci Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester,
-11-
and shall be furnishe< to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Managemi nt, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall pt epare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the q Liarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall h ve its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Sectior 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements hall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financia Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than sii (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set 'orth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The c,,pitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procuremer t methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the (orresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guideli ies, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the cas may be.
-12-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services.
1. 
International Compotitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, wo -ks and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The follow ing methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: 
(a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) Nationa Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions
set forth in paragraph 3 of this Part B; (c) Shopping; and (d) Direct Contracting.
3. 
Additional National Competitive 
Bidding Provisions. 
The following
provisions shall appl,/ to the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting
services under Nation al Competitive Bidding procedures: (a) eligibility screening
shall not be applied, provided however that bids that do not contain any of the
following document; shall not pass the documentary compliance check:
(i) evidence of the required financial, technical or production capability;
(ii) audited financial statements; (iii) credit line or cash deposit certificate; (iv)
bid security; and (v) tuthority of the bid signatory; (b) a ceiling may be applied
to bid prices provide I the following conditions are met: (i) bidding documents
are obtainable free ol charge on a freely accessible website; (ii) the agency has
procedures in place t ensure that the Approved Budget for Contract (ABC) is
based on Engineer's Estimate; (iii) the agency has trained cost estimators on
estimating prices and analyzing bid variance; and (iv) the agency has established
a system to monitor and report bid prices relative to ABC and Engineer's
Estimate; (c) domes:ic or regional preferences shall not be applied in the
evaluation of bids, at d other preference in effect in the Philippines shall not be
used except with prior concurrence of the Bank; (d) foreign suppliers and
contractors shall be allowed to participate, if interested, without first being
required to associate with, or enter into joint venture, with local firms, and
foreign bidders shall :e allowed to bid, even without registration, licensing, and
other government aut horizations, leaving these requirements for after award and
before signing of contract; (e) alternative procurement methods defined in the
implementing rules 
nd regulations such as Limited Source Bidding, Direct
Contracting and Sho )ping as acceptable, and the use of the other alternative
methods shall require prior Bank concurrence; and 
(f) the e-bulletin board, e-
catalogue of prices, subscriber's registry and e-payments features of the
Recipient's governm nt electronic procurement system (PhilGEPS) may be used
with prior Bank conci irrence as described in the PIP.
-13-
C. 
Particular Method; of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and ( ost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of .rocurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consi Itants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection based on
Consultants' Qualific itions; (c) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (d)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-source procedures for the
Selection of Individu I Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plat shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal f Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may v ithdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Artich II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instruction 3 as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "WorH1 Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised fron time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant t such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in pz ragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table s >ecifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the )roceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan :o each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-14-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
works, 
non-
consulting 
services, 
115,710,000 
100%
consultants' 
services,
Training and Workshops,
and Operating Costs under
Parts 
1 (a)(ii), 
I (a)(iii),
I(a)(iv), 1(a)(vi), 1(c), 1(e),
3(a), 4, 5(b) and 6 of the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
290,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 
2.03 of this
Agreement 
in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
116,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditioins; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an iggregate amount not to exceed $23,200,000 may be made
for payments made rior to this date but on or after December 31, 2013, for
Eligible Expenditures under Category 1.
2. 
The Closing Date is Jine 30, 2021.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the tot,.l principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Insta Iment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the First Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by ihe Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Paymc nt Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such ropayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment )ate 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and Novembe-r 15
Beginning November 15, 2024
through November 15, 2038 
3.33%
On May 15, 2039 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payme it Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn L an Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on ea,.h Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal ii amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of ea, h such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Iistallment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the den(minator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Siares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such ar ounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts refei red to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion a )plies.
-16-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Pay nent Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amc unts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn a id outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following tho date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Pay nent Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstand ng the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time ;he Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are i ;sued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions oF such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals r lade after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the rovisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, he amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Pi incipal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be detcrmined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomin, tion immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that re.lects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bani under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the excha ige rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loa i Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Curren:y, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Gi idelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA-
Credits and Grants", c ated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"BRT" means bus rap d transit.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"CCG" means the go ernment of Cebu City.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelin,. s" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated Jan iary 2011 and revised in July 2014.
6. 
"DOF" means the B :rrower's Department of Finance, and any successor or
successors thereto.
7. 
"DILG" means the Borrower's 
Department 
of the Interior and 
Local
Government, and any successor or successors thereto.
8. 
"DPWH" means the I;orrower's Department of Public Works and Highways, and
any successor or succossors thereto.
9. 
"DOTC" 
means 
t ie 
Borrower's 
Department 
of Transportation 
and
Communications, and any successor or successors thereto.
10. 
"EIA" 
means 
the 
Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment, 
including 
the
environmental manal ement plan and environmental management guidelines,
prepared by the Bor -ower, disclosed locally on March 13, 2013, and in the
Bank's Infoshop on vlarch 28, 2013, setting out the environmental issues and
direct and indirect irr pacts of the Project during the planning, construction, and
operational phases, 
.nd the mitigating measures to be taken during Project
implementation, togel her with the monitoring and reporting requirements of the
Project.
I1. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
-18-
12. 
"LTFRB" 
means 
tie Borrower's 
Land Transportation 
Franchising 
and
Regulatory Board, esiablished pursuant to Executive Order No. 202 on June 19,
1987, and responsibl 
for among others, prescribing and regulating routes of
service for public lanqI transportation services provided by motorized vehicles in
accordance with the public land transportation development plans and programs
approved by DOTC, E nd any successor or successors thereto.
13. 
"NPMO" means the national BRT program management office referred to in
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"NSC" means the Bc rrower's National BRT Steering Committee referred to in
Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Operating 
Costs" 
means 
the reasonable, 
incremental 
and documented
expenditures incurre4 by DOTC for hiring of contractual personnel (but
excluding staff salari -s); and includes travel, per diem, accommodation, office
utilities, materials a nd supplies, vehicles and equipment, and advertising
expenses; for purpo5es of implementing the Project and which expenditures
would not have been incurred absent the Project.
16. 
"PIU" means the Proj -ct Implementation Unit in Cebu City under the DOTC and
referred to in Section 1.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Procurement Guid lines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
Works and Non-con.ulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Ban Borrowers" dated January 2011 and revised in July 2014.
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated July 31, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragiraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to :ime in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19. 
"Project Corridor" m,-ans the area from Bulacao to Talamban, and includes the
South Road Propertie;.
20. 
"Project Implementaiion Plan" and "PIP" means the Borrower's plan for the
Project dated July 31. 2014, containing detailed arrangements and procedures for
institutional coordin tion and day-to-day execution of the Project, including
Project budgeting, 
lisbursement and financial management, procurement,
environmental and s )cial management, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and
communication, 
anc 
such other administrative, 
financial, technical 
and
organizational arrang,-ments and procedures as shall be required for the Project.
-19-
21. 
"RAP" means the res.,ttlement action plan, prepared by the Borrower, disclosed
locally on March 13, 2013 and in the Bank's Infoshop on March 29, 2013,
containing, inter a?ta, a program of actions, measures and policies for
compensation of pers )ns affected by land acquisition, including budget and cost
estimates, and source of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring
and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular feedback on c mpliance with its terms for each site.
22. 
"SMP" means social management plan, prepared by the Borrower, disclosed
locally on March 13,:.013 and in the Bank's Infoshop on March 28, 2013, setting
out the impact of the Project on key stakeholders and strategies to manage any
adverse social impact!.
23. 
"Technical Support Consultant" means the group of consultants referred to in
Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
24. 
"Training and Work, hops" means the reasonable costs of goods and services
required for the pa -ticipation of personnel involved in training activities,
workshops or study tc urs under the Project, including travel and subsistence costs
for training, workshop and study tour participants, costs associated with securing
the services of trainer;, rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and
reproduction of traini ig and workshop materials, and other costs directly related
to training course, workshop or study tour preparation and implementation, but
excluding salaries of consultants.
