OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF017112
Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement
Second Urban Infrastructure Project
(Urban Infrastructure Project - 2)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
Dated 
'Mal 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF017112
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
m 
Z16 
, 2014, entered into between:
UKRAINE ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("World Bank" or "Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity
but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund
("CTF").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has requested the CTF
to assist in the financing of Part I of the Project;
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith ("IBRD Loan Agreement"), the
World Bank has agreed to make a loan ("IBRD Loan") to the Borrower in the amount of
three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in the IBRD Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million United States
Dollars ($50,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing Part 1 of the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of
the Standard Conditions, shall be equal to forty-five one-hundredths of one
percent (0.45%) of the Loan.
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through Minregion, shall, cause Part 1 of the Project to be
carried out by the Utility Companies ("Project Implementing Entities") in
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions and each
Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
-2-
of such Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
A Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Bank and each
of the seven (7) Utility Companies.
(b) 
At least five (5) Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and five (5) Utility Companies.
(c) 
The Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
has been finalized and adopted by Minregion and each Utility Company.
(d) 
The IBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness and to the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been satisfied or waived.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: (a) the Project
Agreements referred to in Section 5.01(a) have been duly authorized or approved
by the respective Utility Company and are legally binding upon such Utility
Company in accordance with its terms; and (b) the Subsidiary Agreements
referred to in Section 5.01(b) above have been duly authorized or approved by
the Borrower and the respective Utility Companies and are legally binding upon
the Borrower and such Utility Company in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
5.04. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties
hereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions. Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending
agreement.
-3-
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
Facsimile:
(380-44) 425-90-26
(380-44) 277-54-82
6.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Kiev, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written.
UKRAINE
By
Authore Representative
Name: L2ty(f /Y Sec/cllk
Title: beLZt1/ 
i/1 f 
/dfln2
eve tqoment, Constrcat oIn 
S
{ 
/i 
enf 
- Chlo 
ief 
Cp 
1"
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the
Clean Technology Fund
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Til'ao 
/at
Title: 2Oa17fl 
-A'C clol
6efai-Us ttozdova and
1/-raia e
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and efficiency of water,
wastewater, and solid waste services in selected cities in Ukraine.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Urban Infrastructure Improvement
Implementation of selected investment in the rehabilitation and upgrading of
priority infrastructure specified in a Utility Company's Investment Program, with specific
focus on water supply, wastewater, and solid waste sectors and including:
(a) 
rehabilitation and upgrading of water supply systems; rehabilitation and
upgrading of existing wastewater and sludge treatment facilities; provision of goods for
water treatment systems, pumping stations, operations and maintenance and technical
assistance for detailed designs and tender documents and construction supervision; and
(b) 
rehabilitation, construction and management of solid waste landfills.
Part 2: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen, at the sub-national level,
the capacity and efficiency of municipalities/cities and utility entities to operate and
manage their water supply, wastewater and solid waste infrastructure and systems,
including (i) development of policies and inter-sectoral instruments for water and
wastewater management; (ii) development of policies for solid waste management to
improve municipal service delivery and strengthen governance; and (iii) enhancement of
social accountability mechanisms in the sectors with a view to improving performance.
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen, at the national level,
policy dialogue and strategy development for improved service delivery and regulation in
the water supply, wastewater, and solid waste sectors, including in the areas of tariffs,
alternative financing options, sector governance, public awareness, benchmarking, and
accountability mechanisms.
Part 3: Project Management
Provision of support to the CPMU in its management and implementation of the
Project activities, including financing of Incremental Operating Costs, cost of Project
financial and technical audits and feasibility studies of potential urban infrastructure
improvement investments.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, through Minregion, in accordance
with the procedures set forth in the Project Operations Manual and shall ensure
that the Project Operations Manual is not amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed and that no provision of the Project Operations Manual is waived,
without prior approval of the Bank; and
(b) 
maintain the CPMU within Minregion, throughout the duration of the
Project, in a form and with functions, staffing, (under terms of reference,
qualifications and scope of responsibilities) and adequate resources, all
satisfactory to the Bank which CPMU is responsible for overall Project
coordination and reporting.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of each Utility Company's Respective Part of the
Project in accordance with its Utility Company's Investment Program that has
been approved by the Bank, the Borrower, through MoF, shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan equal to an amount approved by the Bank, available to said
Utility Company 
under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Borrower
(represented by MoF, Minregion, and the National Commission of the State
Public Utilities Regulation), the municipal/regional council concerned and the
Utility Company, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank ("Subsidiary
Agreement"), which shall include:
(a) 
The principal amount of the Loan made available under the Subsidiary
Agreement ("Subsidiary Loan") shall be:
(i) 
in an amount approved by the Bank for financing the Utility
Company's Investment Program to be supported by the Project
as reflected for the relevant Utility Company's disbursement in
Category 1 of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as such amounts may be adjusted from time
to time with the prior consent of the Bank upon the request of the
Borrower;
(ii) 
denominated and repayable in Dollars;
-7-
(iii) 
charged interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at the rate applicable to the Loan from time to time
under Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and charged a fee, to be
deducted from the Subsidiary Loan principal amount, at a rate that
equals the rate applied to the Loan under Section 2.04 of this
Agreement and charged a fee of 0.01 percent on the amount of the
Subsidiary Loan principal amount; and
(iv) 
repayable over a period not exceeding the maturity of the Loan,
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 10 years.
(b) 
The Utility Company shall be responsible for implementing its Utility
Company's Investment Program that has been approved by the Bank and in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual, ESMF, RPF, and shall maintain
its RPMU throughout the duration of the Project for this purpose, in a form and
with functions, staffing, (under terms of reference, qualifications and scope of
responsibilities), and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank and as
further set forth in the Project Operations Manual. The Utility Company shall
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the Project
Operations Manual without the prior approval of the Bank.
(c) 
The Utility Company shall comply with the financial covenants and all
other provisions set forth in its respective Project Agreement and its respective
Subsidiary Agreement.
(d) 
The Utility Company shall obtain any necessary legal or administrative
permissions, licenses, permits, usage rights, authorizations and any other
consents as may be required for the implementation and maintenance of the
Utility Company's Investment Program under the Borrower's legal framework.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take
measures to ensure that each Utility Company, during Project implementation,
shall be able to maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on
December 31, 2015 a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues
not higher than 150% and for purposes of this paragraph, the terms "total
operating expenses", "total operating revenues" and other terms used in this
paragraph shall have the meanings set forth in the Utility Company's Project
Agreement.
-8-
(b) 
If the Borrower has failed to comply with paragraph (a) above and/or a
Utility Company has failed to maintain the ratio of total operating expenses to
total operating revenues as set out in paragraph (a) above, the Bank may, without
limitation to Article VII of the Standard Conditions and in its sole discretion,
reallocate the amounts of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance allocated to such non-
performing Utility Company to another Utility Company.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall, and shall cause each Utility Company
to, prior to the commencement of any civil works under the Project, (a) prepare
an EMP in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the ESMF;
(b) thereafter, provide said EMP to the Bank for review; and (c) implement such
EMP as shall have been accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory, as well as
cause the Kharkiv Solid Waste EMP to be implemented.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall carry out and cause the following to be
carried out:
(a) 
all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary
loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or
income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently in carrying out the
Project; and
(b) 
for this purpose, whenever implementation of Project activities would
give rise to Displaced Persons, prior to the commencement of civil works related
to said activities: (i) prepare, and cause to be prepared, a resettlement action plan
in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the RPF;
(ii) thereafter, provide said plan to the Bank for review; and (iii) implement such
resettlement action plan as shall have been accepted by the Bank as being
satisfactory.
3. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall ensure that the ESMF, RPF, the Kharkiv
Solid Waste EMP, EMPs and RAPs and any provision thereof, shall not be
amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived or permitted to be
amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived, except with the prior
written consent of the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall:
-9-
(a) 
maintain, and cause each Utility Company to maintain, policies and
procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of any of the ESMF, RPF,
the EMPs, and RAPs and the achievement of the objectives of said frameworks
and plans; and
(b) 
include in the Project Report, which is to be prepared under Section II.A
paragraph I of this Schedule, the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities with respect to the plans referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1 .
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to
the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
quarter, and shall be furnished to the World Bank and the Borrower's Ministry
of Economic Development and Trade not later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall prepare the Completion Report in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six
months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1 .
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall ensure that a financial management
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the
Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through Minregion, shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project
Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall have its Financial Statements for the
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the
Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6)
months after the end of such period.
-10-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; (b) Direct Contracting;
and (c) National Competitive Bidding , subject to the additional provisions set
forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications;
(b) Least Cost Selection; 
(c) Single-source Selection of consulting firms;
-11-
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-source procedures for
the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1 .
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through Minregion, shall:
(a) 
No later than December 31 of every year during the implementation of
the Project, beginning on December 31, 2015, prepare and furnish to the
Bank a procurement progress report ("Procurement Progress Report"), in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia: (i) a description of issues arising during the full procurement cycle
under the Project, from design through planning, bidding, contract
implementation and completion; (ii) a list of proposed measures and
actions to be taken to resolve the issues identified under sub-paragraph
(i) above; and (iii) a proposed timeline for the implementation of the said
measures and actions.
(b) 
No later than January 31 of every year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on January 31, 2016, exchange views with the Bank
on the results of the Procurement Progress Report completed for the
Borrower's previous calendar year and thereafter implement such
recommended measures, as agreed with the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
-12-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
18.50%
consulting services, and
consultants' services for
Part I of the Project to
be implemented by:
(a) Donetsk UC 
6,919,000
(b) Kharkiv UC 
13,985,000
(c) Kharkiv Waste 
8,118,000
Management UC
(d) Kyiv UC 
2,103,000
(e) Kirovograd UC 
6,346,000
(f) Ternopil UC 
6,769,000
(g) Zhytomyr UC 
5,535,000
(2) Management Fee 
225,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.04 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 4.01 (a) of the
Standard Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
under Category (1) for each withdrawal to a Utility Company, unless the
Subsidiary Agreement related to the relevant Utility Company has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower (represented by MoF, Minregion,
and the National Commission of the State Public Utilities Regulation),
the municipal/regional council concerned and the relevant Utility
Company, and a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
-13-
provided by counsel acceptable to the Bank, confirming that such
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or approved by the
aforementioned parties to the Subsidiary Agreement and is legally
binding upon said parties in accordance with its terms.
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2020.
C. 
Other Undertakings
1 .
With respect to Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through Minregion, shall:
(a) within eighteen (18) months from the Effective Date furnish to the Bank for
comments a draft "Utilities Performance Improvement" (UPI) study, prepared in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, including analysis of
the applicable legal and regulatory framework and the financial and operational
constraints in the sector per utility and proposed solutions; and (b) thereafter,
finalize and implement recommendations of said study, taking into account the
Bank's comments thereon.
-14-
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under
World Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding
The procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the
Open Tender Procedure set forth in the Law on Public Procurement No. No. 1197-VII
dated April 10, 2014, provided, however, that such procedure shall be subject to the
provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the "Guidelines for Procurement of
Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits &
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 2011) (the "Procurement Guidelines") and
the following additional provisions:
(i) 
Bidding Documents, acceptable to the World Bank, shall be used.
(ii) 
The eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement process and to be
awarded a World Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the World Bank for
reasons other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
(iii) 
After the public opening of the bids, information relating to the examination,
clarification, and evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards
shall not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned
with this process until the publication of the contract award notice.
(iv) 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents.
Qualification shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis, and merit points
shall not be used. Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the bidder's
or prospective bidder's capability and resources to effectively perform the
contract, taking into account objective and measurable factors, including: (i)
relevant general and specific experience, and satisfactory past performance
and successful completion of similar contracts over a given period; (ii)
financial position; and where relevant (iii) capability of construction and/or
manufacturing facilities. 
The availability of equipment, material 
and
technical basis, including owning production facilities and/or service centers
within the territory of Ukraine shall not be required as part of qualification
requirements.
(v) 
Government-owned enterprises are eligible to bid only if they (i) are legally
and financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are
not dependent agencies of Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
-15-
(vi) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the evaluation criteria
specified in the bidding documents. Evaluation criteria other than price shall
be quantified in monetary terms. Merit points shall not be used, and no
minimum point or percentage value shall be assigned to the significance of
price, in bid evaluation.
(vii) 
If required, bid security amount shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the
estimated cost of the contract.
(viii) 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors/suppliers without a
suitable advance payment security.
(ix) 
No domestic preference shall be granted in bid evaluation on the basis of
bidder nationality, origin of goods or services, and/or preferential programs.
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been
determined: (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents, and
(ii) to offer the lowest-evaluated cost. A bidder shall not be eliminated from
detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantial deviations.
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's
estimate or budget allocation ceiling without the World 
Bank's prior
concurrence.
(xi) 
All bids (including in the case when less than two bids are received) shall not
be rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids
shall not be solicited without the World Bank's prior concurrence.
(xii) 
Restrictions to the contract amendments, as contemplated under Article 40 of
the PPL will not apply. With respect to contracts subject to the World
Bank's prior review, the Borrower shall obtain the World 
Bank's no
objection before agreeing to: (a) a material extension of the stipulated time
for performance of a contract; (b) any substantial modification of the scope
of services or other significant changes to the terms and conditions of the
contract; (c) any variation order or amendment which, singly or combined
with all variation orders or amendments previously issued, increases the
original contract amount by more than 15 percent; or (d) the proposed
termination of the contract. 
A copy of all contract amendments shall be
provided to the World Bank.
(xiii) 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the World
Bank shall include provisions stating the World Bank's policy to sanction
firms or individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as
defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
-16-
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract financed out of the proceeds of the World Bank financing shall
provide that bidders, suppliers, contractors and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers to permit the World
Bank to inspect all accounts, records and other documents relating to the bid
submission and performance of the contract and to have said accounts and
records audited by auditors appointed by the World Bank. Acts intended to
materially impede the exercise of the World Bank's inspection and audit
rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive
practice as defined in the Guidelines.
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Loan repayable
Date Payment Due 
(expressed as a percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15,
commencing June 15, 2024, 
5%
to and including December 15, 2033
-18-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit within Minregion,
established pursuant to Decree 
343-1 
dated November 
14, 
2008, 
and
Decree 483dated March 10, 2013, and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
5. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks
and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
6. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" 
or 
"EMP" 
means 
a 
site-specific
environmental management plan, prepared in accordance with the ESMF and the
provisions of Section I.D. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the
World 
Bank, and giving details the specific actions, measures and policies
designed to facilitate the achievement of the objective of the ESMF, setting forth
the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of an Utility Company's Investment Program to
offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the World
Bank, including the budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, along
with the institutional and procedural measures needed to implement such actions,
measures and policies. 
"Environmental Management Plans" or "EMPs" means,
collectively, all such EMPs and the Kharkiv Solid Waste EMP.
7. 
"ESMF" means the Environment and Social Management Framework dated
December 2013, satisfactory to the World 
Bank, and disclosed on the
-19-
Borrower's website on January 14, 2014, and the World Bank's Infoshop on
March 20, 2014, which framework sets out, inter alia policies and procedures
for: the preliminary screening (including impact on physical cultural resources)
of proposed Project activities; preparation of environmental assessment and
environment management plans therefor; consultation and disclosure and
monitoring and reporting during the implementation of the Project, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the
World Bank.
8. 
"Kharkiv Solid Waste EMP" means the Environmental and Social Management
Plan for Solid Waste Management Sub-project in Kharkiv dated December 2013,
satisfactory to the World 
Bank, and disclosed on the Minregion website on
January 20, 2014, and the World Bank's Infoshop on March 20, 2014, which
sets forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during
the implementation and operation of Kharkiv Waste Management UC, the
Project Implementing Entity's Utility Company's Investment Program to offset
or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the World Bank,
[including the budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding], along with the
institutional and procedural measures needed to implement such actions,
measures and policies.
9. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the CPMU's reasonable and necessary
incremental expenditures related to the management and implementation of the
Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the World Bank, including
on account of vehicle rental; miscellaneous utilities; stationary and office
supplies and equipment; operation, maintenance and spare parts of equipment;
consumables; transportation; local travel; communication and advertisement
costs; salaries of CPMU staff, but excluding salaries or honoraria of officials and
employees of the Borrower's civil services.
10. 
"Ministry of Finance" and "MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
includes any successor thereto.
11. 
"Minregion" means the Borrower's Ministry of Regional Development, Building
and Housing and includes any successor thereto.
12. 
"Operations Manual" means the operational manual adopted by Minregion and
each Utility Company, setting forth the operational requirements, criteria,
institutional arrangements and operational procedures for the implementation of
the 
Project, 
including, 
inter alia, procurement, 
financial management,
disbursement, 
accounting, 
audit, 
environmental 
and 
social 
safeguards
requirements, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, as amended from time to
time with the agreement of the World Bank.
-20-
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 24, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means a Utility Company.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means with respect to each Project
Implementing Entity/Utility Company, the Charter set forth in column 4 of the
same row as the Utility Company concerned in the table in Attachment I to the
Appendix.
17. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and RAP" mean a site-specific resettlement action
plan relating to land acquisition and/or resettlement or economic displacement of
Displaced Persons, as the case may be, prepared in accordance with the ESMF
and the provisions of Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
acceptable to the World Bank; and "Resettlement Action Plans" and "RAPs"
mean, collectively, all such RAPs.
1 8. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means with respect to each Utility Company, the
Utility Company's Investment Program that has been proposed by the Borrower
for financing under Part I of the Project using the proceeds of the Loan and
approved by the World Bank, all in accordance with the procedures set out in the
Project Operations Manual.
19. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework dated December 2013,
satisfactory to the World 
Bank, and disclosed in the Borrower's website on
January 14, 2014, and the World Bank's Infoshop on March 20, 2014, which
sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement,
compensation 
and 
rehabilitation 
of Displaced Persons, 
preparation 
of
resettlement action plans therefor, consultation, disclosure, grievance redress, and
monitoring and reporting during Project implementation, as said framework may
be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the World Bank.
20. 
"RPMU" means the project implementation unit established within each Utility
Company and referred to in Section I.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means each agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and made between the Borrower (represented by
MoF, Minregion and the National Commission of the State Public Utilities
Regulation), the municipal/regional council concerned) and the Utility Company,
-21-
pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan
available to each Utility Company.
22. 
"Training" means Project-related training, and includes Project related study
tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, not
included under service providers' contracts, including costs of training materials,
space and equipment rental, reasonable and necessary local and international
travel 
by 
participants 
in 
training 
activities, 
reasonable 
lodging 
and
accommodation, subsistence and local and international per diem of trainees and
trainers, registration, tuition and facilitators' fees, translation and interpretation,
and other training related miscellaneous costs, all based on budgets acceptable to
the World Bank.
23. 
"Utility Company" means, individually, each of the utility companies set forth in
column 3 of the table in Attachment I to this Appendix, which utility company:
(a) 
is located in the municipality/city set forth in column I of the same row
of said table as the Utility Company concerned;
(b) 
is established and operating pursuant to its Charter and Identification
Number 
(also defined 
above 
as Project 
Implementing Entity's
Legislation) as set forth in column 4 of the same row of said table as the
Utility Company concerned; and
(c) 
may be referred to in this Agreement by its acronym, which is set forth in
column 2 of the same row of said table as the Utility Company
concerned, and
"Utility Companies" means, collectively, all such companies.
24. 
"Utility Company's Investment Program" means a Utility Company's program
for water supply, wastewater and/or solid waste investments proposed by a
Utility Company, in accordance with procedures established by Minregion, to the
World Bank for approval for inclusion under Part I of the Project and to be
financed by the proceeds of the Loan.
25. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 15, 2014.
-22-
Attachment I to Appendix
Column I 
Column 2 
Column 3 
Column 4
Nameof 
Acronim of 
Utility Company is established and operating
Municipality/ 
Full Name of Utility Company 
pursuant to its Charter and Identification
Cit 
U 
) 
Number as follows:
1. Donetsk 
Donetsk UC 
Communal Enterprise 
Charter approved by Donetsk Mayor Decree
"Donetskmis'kvodokanal" of Donetsk City 
No.711 dated August 05, 2013 with Identification
Council 
No. 03361477.
2. Kharkiv 
Kharkiv UC 
Communal Enterprise "Kharkivvodokanal" of 
Charter approved by Decision of Kharkiv City
Kharkiv City Council 
Council No. 66 dated January 25, 2012 with
Identification No. 0336171.
Kharkiv Waste 
Municipal Enterprise "Municipal Company 
Charter approved by Deputy Director of
Management UC 
for Waste Management" of Kharkiv City 
Economics and Municipal Property Department,
Council 
Head of Municipal Property and Privatization
Department of Kharkiv City Council and
registered on April 3, 2009, with Identification
No. 30990215.
3. Kirovohrad 
Kirovohrad UC 
Regional Utility Production Company 
Charter approved by Decree of Head of
"Dnipro-Kirovohrad" 
Kirovohrad Oblast Council No. 50-rp dated
February 24, 2012 with Identification
No. 03346822.
4. Kyiv 
Kyiv UC 
Public Joint Stock Company "Joint Stock 
Articles of Association approved by Protocol of
Company "Kievvodokanal" 
General Shareholders' Meeting No.1/Il dated
April 28, 2011 with Identification No. 03327664.
-23-
Column 1 
Column 2 
Column 3 
Column 4
Name of 
Utility Company is established and operating
Municipality/ 
Ar 
ompf 
Full Name of Utilit- Company 
pursuant to its Charter and Identification
Cit 
U 
Number as follows:
5. Ternopil 
Ternopil UC 
Communal Enterprise "Ternopilvodokanal" 
Charter approved by Decision of Ternopil City
Council No. 5/26/19 dated April 30, 2009 with
Identification No. 03353845.
6. Zhytomyr 
Zhytomyr UC 
Communal Enterprise "Zhytomirvodokanal" 
Charter approved by Decision of Zhytomir City
of Zhytomir City Council 
Council No. 441 dated August 30, 2012 with
Identification No. 03344065.
-24-
