qO FRCIAL
UMENTS,
LOAN NUMBER 8333-PA
Loan Agreement
(Third Programmatic Fiscal Management and Efficiency of Expenditures Development
Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
4WAA 
2 E, 201_4
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
1qNUAY. 
2 
, 201A entered into between REPUBLIC OF
PANAMA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars (US$200,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on June 30,
2015.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Direcci6n de Cr6dito Pdblico
Via Espafia, Calle 52
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso
Panama, Repfiblica de PanamA
Facsimile: (507) 507-7200
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at I,46 
iA (SI'N, 
7
4
a 
C 
OF ?-Ac- 
as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PAN
By 
_
.
Authorized Representative
Name: 
IZAN5,~ 
'b. e LjHA 
67.
Title: 
PAirj:5TC- 01- ebj C"q 
FD TNArNC-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
/ 
,
Authorized Representative
Name: 
L.Lpw,ILL4 
%& reNirO
Title: 
L2LA N Tit 
7
Ay
-4-
SCHEDULE1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
Mobilizing Domestic Tax Revenue
The Borrower, through ANIP, has taken steps to increase tax compliance by carrying out
10 audits of Large Taxpayers using advanced audit techniques; as evidenced by the
corresponding audit reports provided by the Borrower to the Bank in September 2013.
2. 
Increasing Tax Transparency
The Borrower has adopted a "Custody Regime" for bearer shares for purposes of
facilitating the identification of the ownership of said type of shares; as evidenced by
Law No. 47 dated August 6, 2013 (published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
August 6 and 13, 2013).
3. 
Improving the Institutional Arrangement for Debt Management
The Borrower, through MEF, has adopted a plan for domestic debt market development,
including: (a) the adoption of a policy and issuance of regulations for the promotion and
functioning of the primary dealers program, as evidenced by the Ministerial Decree 001-
2013 of February 20, 2013 and Executive Decree No. 768 of June 19, 2013, duly
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on March 6, 2013 and June 20, 2013,
respectively; (b) the modification of the contracts with international credit rating agencies
to have domestic sovereign bonds rated; and (c) the selection of a worldwide known
financial information platform to conduct domestic government bond auctions on this
platform.
4. 
Expanding Social Transfer Programs and Improving Institutional Capacity
for Targeting
The Borrower has undertaken the following actions to expand and improve the targeting
of social transfer programs:
(a) 
The Borrower, through MIDES, has adopted a policy and issued regulations for
the better targeting of beneficiaries of the 100 a los 70 program including
provisions: (i) to verify compliance with beneficiaries co-responsibilities and
processes for entry to, and exit from, said program; (ii) to incorporate
beneficiaries in the Registro Unico de Beneficiarios; and (iii) to formally
incorporate the Secretaria Ejecutiva del Programa 100 a los 70 under MIDES; as
evidenced by Executive Decree No. 11, dated February 15, 2013, published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 18, 2013.
-5-
(b) 
The Borrower, through MIDES, has developed 
a "Registro Unico de
Beneficiarios" for the 
following 
social 
protection 
programs: 
Red de
Oportunidades, 100 a los 70, and Evaluaci6n Social to improve targeting and
harmonize information among said programs.
(c) 
The Borrower has taken steps to establish a monitoring and evaluation system for
the Beca Universal program by including individual based questions on
scholarship benefits into the Encuesta de Propdsitos Mdtiples; as evidenced by
the "Encuesta de Prop6sitos Miltiples- Marzo 2013 ".
(d) 
The Borrower has created the "Programa Angel Guardi6n", a social assistance
program for people with severe disabilities who are in extreme poverty and in
vulnerable dependent condition; as evidenced by Law 39 dated June 14th, 2012
and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on June 18, 2012.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche,
from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in US Dollars)
(1)Single
Withdrawal Tranche 
200,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out
by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
-6-
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is January 30, 2015.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
________________________________(Expressed_as_a_Percentage)
On each February 15d' and August 15('
Beginning February 15, 2016
through February 15, 2033 
2.78%
On August 15, 2033 
2.7%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-8-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ANIP" means the Autoridad Nacional de Ingresos Pliblicos, the Borrower's National
Public Revenue Authority created by Law 24 of April 8, 2013 (duly published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on April 9, 2013) as a legal entity with administrative and
financial autonomy.
2. 
"Custody Regime" means the regime established by Law 47 of August 6, 2013 (duly
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on August 6 and 13, 2013) through which
bearer shares issued after the entry into force of said law shall be delivered to a custodian
together with an affidavit from the owner of the shares including specific identification
information, which documentation and information shall be available to the appropriate
Borrower's authority upon request.
3. 
"Encuesta de Propdsitos Midtiples-Marzo 2013" the multiple purpose household survey
carried out by the Borrower's Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censo, which aims to,
inter alia, improve the monitoring and evaluation of the social protection programs
mentioned in Section 1.4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
4. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
-10-
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
5. 
"General 
Conditions" means 
the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"Large Taxpayers" means any individual or legal entity subject to taxation in Panama
that has met the criteria established by the Borrower to be classified as "Large Taxpayer"
which criteria, includes a set of economic variables.
7. 
"MEF" means Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy
and Finance.
8. 
"MIDES" means Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, the Borrower's Ministry of Social
Development.
9. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated November 6, 2013, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
-11-
10. 
"Registro Unico de Beneficiarios" means the Borrower's Single Registry ofBeneficiaries,
a new web platform that consolidates data obtained from different social protection
programs, such as the programs mentioned in Section 1.4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement with the objective of establishing a one-stop source of information for better
targeting of beneficiaries under said programs.
11. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
-12-
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
-13-
