OFFICIAL
DOCUMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8447-MX
Loan Agreement
(Social Protection System Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 19, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated November 19, 2014, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
("Borrower") duly represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria
de 
Hacienda y 
Cridito Publico) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set
forth in the table in Section IV.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of
supporting the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project")), shall be
used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary and
public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income,
budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without
limitation to the provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank
agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred fifty million Dollars
($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist the Borrower in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Unless the Borrower's
representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs
the Bank, the Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director/a de
Organismos Financieros Internacionales of NAFIN or any person or persons
whom such representative shall designate in writing.
-2-
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
-3-
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through SEDESOL, shall: (i) carry out Part 1 of the Project
through CNP: and (ii) carry out Part 2 of the Project through SSPEDR, all in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP, SSPEDR and OM),
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following namely, that any
party to the Contrato de Mandato and/or the BANSEFI Agreement, shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Contrato de Mandato and/or
under the BANSEFI Agreement, respectively.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: namely that
the Contrato de Mandato shall have been duly executed by the parties
thereto; and
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consists of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by
a Borrower's counsel acceptable to the Bank, shall indicate that the
Contrato de Mandato, has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
-4-
upon the Borrower in accordance with the terms of the Contrato de
Mandato.
(b) 
NAFIN, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by
NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank, shall indicate that the Contrato
de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, NAFIN and is legally binding upon NAFIN in
accordance with the terms of the Contrato de Mandato.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on April 22, 2016.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Cr&dito Ptiblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be
the Titular de la Unidad de Cr&dito PrTblico of SHCP or any person or persons
whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr&dito Piblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre III, Piso 3
Colonia Guadalupe Inn, 01020
Delegaci6n Alvaro Obreg6n
M6xico, Distrito Federal
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Mexico City, M6xico, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN ST
y
uthorize 
esentative
Name: Dr. Luis Vide2aray Caso
Title: Secretary of Finance and Public Credit
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCT 
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
u 
ized Representative
Name: Dr. Jim Yong Kim
Title: President
Witness
Name: Mtra. Rosario Robles Berlanga
Title: Secretary of Social Development
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's effort to: (i) increase
access of PROSPERA Beneficiaries to social and productive programs; and (ii) develop
instruments for an integrated social protection system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Support to the PROSPERA Program and its Linkage with Social and
Productive Programs.
(a) 
Promoting the investment in human capital through the provision of PROSPERA
Conditional Support to PROSPERA Beneficiaries for:
(i) 
education, pursuant to Section 3.5.1 (Componente Educativo), or its
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank, of the Operational Rules.
(ii) 
health and nutrition, as referred to in Section 3.5.2 (Componente de
Salud) and Section 3.5.3 (Componente Alimentario), or their successors
thereto satisfactory to the Bank, of the Operational Rules, but excluding
any in-kind support referred to under Section 3.5.2.of the Operational
Rules.
(b) 
Strengthening the CNP's operational capacity to promote the PROSPERA
Beneficiaries' access to Social and Productive Programs through, inter alia:
(i) 
defining roles and responsibilities of CNP's staff assigned to work in the
implementation of the PROSPERA Program to support the coordination
with Social and Productive Programs;
(ii) 
designing capacity building activities to strengthen the implementation of
the PROSPERA Program by CNP's staff, to promote the linkages
between said program and complementary 
Social and Productive
Programs;
(iii) 
updating the communication strategy for the PROSPERA Program to
target groups including, inter alia, youth and indigenous peoples; and
(iv) 
designing and piloting coordination models for the inclusion of
PROSPERA Beneficiaries in Social and Productive Programs.
-7-
(c) 
Strengthening CNP's monitoring and evaluation tools and strategy through, inter
alia:
(i) 
updating 
the 
PROSPERA 
Program 
targeting 
and 
recertification
methodology through, inter alia: (1) revising the targeting methodology;
and (2) monitoring PROSPERA Beneficiaries that have concluded their
participation in the PROSPERA Program.
(ii) 
developing a digital platform containing information on the PROSPERA
Beneficiaries and the Social and Productive Programs supply to support
and monitor the implementation of the coordination models designed
under Part 1 (b)(iv) of the Project;
(iii) 
supporting the linkages and coordination between the PROSPERA
Program and the Social and Productive Programs through, inter alia: (1)
the carrying out of studies and the preparation of the pertinent evaluation
reports; and (2) data collection on the PROSPERA Beneficiaries
perception of said coordination; and
(iv) 
carrying out an evaluation of the long term impact of the PROSPERA
Program.
Part 2. Strengthening the Social Protection System
(a) 
Developing and implementing an integrated Social Information System (SIS)
through, inter alia:
(i) 
carrying out an assessment of the current ICT infrastructure needs for the
development of the SIS.
(ii) 
developing the SIS;
(iii) 
supporting the implementation of the SIS, through, inter alia the
acquisition of software and the provision of ICT Services;
(iv) 
developing an operational manual documenting the processes involved in
the operation of the SIS;
(v) 
developing capacity building mechanisms for the use of the SIS through,
inter alia, the development of capacity building software; and
(vi) 
reviewing the existing legal framework and developing protocols for the
exchange of information through the SIS among the Borrower's
ministries and agencies responsible for the implementation of the
PROSPERA Program and the Social and Productive Programs.
-8-
(b) 
Supporting the development and implementation of RSDS through, inter alia:
(i) 
carrying out diagnostic studies in the Borrower's territory to: (A) identify
challenges in the development of social interventions to be addressed by
SEDESOL; and (B) develop the RSDS based on the recommendations of
the studies referred to in (A) herein;
(ii) 
defining SEDESOL's organizational structure needs to implement the
RSDS;
(iii) 
developing institutional capacity to support SEDESOL's implementation
of the RSDS through, inter alia, the development of capacity building
modules and the related software;
(iv) 
developing the technological infrastructure required to obtain and
analyze information on the supply of the Borrower's social programs and
the social needs of the population at the local and regional levels;
(v) 
developing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system for the
RSDS including, inter alia, the acquisition of software and hardware,
and the provision of ICT Services.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Part I of the Project, and except as the Borrower,
through SEDESOL (through CNP) and the Bank may otherwise agree,
throughout Project implementation, the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through
CNP) shall, under its overall coordination:
(a) 
maintain a council comprised of representatives of SEDESOL, SHCP,
SEP, SS, SE, STPS, SAGARPA and CNP responsible of, inter alia,
general guidance on the implementation of the PROSPERA Program;
(b) 
maintain a technical committee comprised of representatives of SHCP,
SEDESOL, SEP, SS, SE, STPS, SAGARPA, IMSS and CNP responsible
of, inter alia, providing, 
supervision, transparent 
operation 
and
performance review for the PROSPERA Program, including the approval
of the Operational Rules;
(c) 
provide the health and education services related to the PROSPERA
Program through SEP, SS, and IMSS; and
(d) 
maintain State level committees (with the participation of, inter alia,
SEDESOL, SEP, Salud and IMSS), which will, inter alia, supervise and
monitor the implementation of the PROSPERA Program at the State
level.
2. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall ensure that the
PROSPERA Beneficiaries comply with the obligations set forth under Section 3.6
(Derechos, corresponsabilidades, compromisos y suspensiones de las familias
beneficiarias), or its successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank, of the Operational
Rules, including, inter alia:
(a) 
children or youth up to 21 years old shall be enrolled in school and attend
classes on a regular basis as described in the Operational Rules;
(b) 
all household members shall be registered and visit health centers with
the frequency established in the Operational Rules; and
(c) 
household members invited must attend the health information sessions,
as established in the Operational Rules.
-10-
B. 
Contrato de Mandato
1. 
The Borrower, through SHCP and SEDESOL (through SSPEDR, OM, and
CNP), shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato) with NAFIN,
satisfactory to the Bank, whereby:
(a) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the
Borrower vis-a-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees,
if requested by the Borrower (through SHCP), to maintain and operate
the designated account (referred to in the additional instructions cited in
Section IV.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) in compliance with the
terms of this Agreement;
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(c) 
the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through SSPEDR, OM and CNP),
agrees to carry out the Parts of the Project under its responsibility, in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, including the IPP, the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and the Operational Manual;
(d) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its
effects, or, if applicable, require the Restitution of an amount equivalent
to the funds transferred to NAFIN under said Contrato de Mandato; and
(e) 
the Borrower, through SEDESOL(through SSPEDR, OM and CNP),
agrees to cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN is able to
comply with all of NAFIN's obligations referred to in paragraph (a) and
(b) of this Section.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict
between the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
-11-
C. 
BANSEFI Agreement and Payment Agent Agreements
1 
(a) 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall maintain,
throughout Project implementation, the BANSEFI Agreement with
contents satisfactory to the Bank, whereby BANSEFI, shall agree to
distribute the PROSPERA Conditional Support to the PROSPERA
Beneficiaries.
(b) 
For purposes of carrying out Part 1(a) of the Project, the Borrower,
through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall exercise its rights and carry out
its obligations under the BANSEFI Agreement in such a manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through
CNP), shall not amend, suspend, terminate or waive any provision of the
BANSEFI Agreement in such a manner so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to
comply with its Project related obligations set forth in this Agreement
(including the provisions related to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines). In
case of any conflict between the terms of the BANSEFI Agreement and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
(a) 
For purposes of carrying out Part 1(a) of the Project, and prior to the
distribution of PROSPERA Conditional Support to the PROSPERA
Beneficiaries by each Payment Agent, the Borrower, through SEDESOL
(through CNP), shall ensure that BANSEFI shall have entered into a
separate agreement with said Payment Agent (the Payment Agent
Agreement), with contents satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia,
the obligation of: (i) each Payment Agent 
to distribute, on behalf of
BANSEFI, the PROSPERA Conditional Support to the PROSPERA
Beneficiaries; and (ii) each Payment Agent and BANSEFI to comply
with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
(b) 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall ensure that
BANSEFI shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
each Payment Agent Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, BANSEFI and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through
CNP), shall ensure that BANSEFI shall not amend, suspend, terminate or
waive any provision of the Payment Agent Agreement in such a manner
so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower to comply with its Project related obligations set
forth in this Agreement (including the provisions related to the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines). In case of any conflict between the terms of
each Payment Agent Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms
of this Agreement shall prevail.
-12-
D. 
Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through SSPEDR, OM and CNP) shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Operational
Manual) satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia: (i) specific provisions on
detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project; (ii) the procurement,
financial management and disbursement 
requirements 
thereof; 
(iii) 
the
performance indicators; (iv) the Operational Rules; (v) the IPP; and (vi) the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.
2 
The Borrower through SEDESOL (through SSPEDR, OM and CNP) shall not
amend or waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Operational Manual
without the Bank's prior written approval. In case of any conflict between the
terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
In this regard, the Borrower,
through SEDESOL (through CNP) or through any other entity as the Borrower
may deem appropriate, shall, inter alia, ensure compliance with paragraph 9 (d)
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines as follows:
(a) 
by requiring BANSEFI, to take appropriate measures to prevent, inform
on, respond to and investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and
obstructive practices with respect to their payment of PROSPERA
Conditional Support;
(b) 
by allowing the Bank to inspect accounts, records and other documents
of BANSEFI relating to the Project upon the Bank's request and in the
company of CNP representatives;
(c) 
by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank's
terms of reference for such purpose, with the collaboration of the
Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP);
(d) 
by agreeing to suspend or terminate BANSEFI's right to process Bank
financed proceeds derived from the Loan or from any other agreement
with the Bank, if the Bank has declared BANSEFI ineligible under
paragraph II of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and
(e) 
by agreeing to obtain Restitution from BANSEFI of any amount of the
Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred,
-13-
all of the above pursuant to audit, transparency, control, restitution and
information sharing clauses within the BANSEFI Agreement, the Operational
Rules and/or any other means (including, but not limited to the Borrower's rights
under the Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law, and the General Public
Debt Law).
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and Section 9.03(b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall, no later than the date ten (10) business
days after the date of this Agreement, issue a notice to BANSEFI (the ACG
Notice) in a manner acceptable to the Bank, including:
(a) 
a copy of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and
(b) 
exhorting BANSEFI to comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
when managing Loan proceeds (as disbursed in accordance with the
provisions set forth in this Agreement);.
F. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through SEDESOL shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the IPP.
2. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL shall ensure that the terms of reference for
any consultancy in respect to Parts 1(c)(iii)(1) and 2(b)(i) of the Project shall be
satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms
of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank Safeguards
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
-14-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall maintain or cause to be
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower
through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part
of each Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the pertinent calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultaits' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
4. 
Special Provisions. The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through SSPEDR,
OM and CNP) shall: (a) supply the SEPA with the information contained in the
initial Procurement Plan within 45 days after the date of this Agreement; and (b)
update the Procurement Plan at least every year, or as required by the Bank, to
reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and supply the
-15-
SEPA with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan
immediately thereafter.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultin2 Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following method, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b)
Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
-16-
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 3 below.
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A. 1
immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided
under this Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures.
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Catepory 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) PROSPERA Conditional 
301,525,000 
100%
Support under Part 1(a) of
the Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
47,600,000 
100%
services, and consultants'
services and Project
Incremental Costs under
Parts 1(b), 1(c) and 2 of the
Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
875,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
350,000,000
-17-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 5,000,000 may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after August 19,
2014, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 28, 2019.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on August 15,
2030.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ACG Notice" means the notice issued by the Borrower, through CNP, to
BANSEFI referred to in section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the World Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the World Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs
4.01, 4.04, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published
under www.worldbank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"BANSEFI" means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C.,
a Mexican development bank created pursuant to the BANSEFI Organic Law (or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank).
5. 
"BANSEFI Agreement" 
means the agreement entered into between the
Borrower, through CNP, and BANSEFI on January 14, 2014, and referred to in
Section I.C. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any other renewal or
amendment thereof, whereby BANSEFI will continue to make available to each
PROSPERA Beneficiary the PROSPERA Conditional Support in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
6. 
"BANSEFI Organic Law" means the Borrower's law Ley Organica del Banco
del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros published on June 1, 2001 in the
Borrower's Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n), and said term
includes the regulations to said law, as said law and regulations have been
amended to the date of this Agreement (including the amendment dated August
1,2005).
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
8. 
"CNP" means Coordinaci6n Nacional de PROSPERA Programa de Inclusi6n
Social, a deconcentrated unit (6rgano desconcentrado) within SEDESOL
responsible for the implementation of the PROSPERA Program as created by the
Borrower's Decree published in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Diario Oficial
de la Federaci6n) on September 5, 2014 (or any successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank).
-20-
9. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 201 land revised on July 2014.
10. 
"Contrato de Mandato" means the agreement to be entered into among the
Borrower, through SHCP, SEDESOL (through SSPEDR, OM and CNP), and
NAFIN, pursuant to Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
11. 
"Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law" means the Borrower's law (Ley
Federal de Presupuesto y Responsabilidad Hacendaria), published in the
Official Gazette on March 30, 2006, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"General Public Debt Law" means the Borrower's law (Ley General de Deuda
Prblica) published in the Official Gazette on December 31, 1976, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
14. 
"Hedging Guidelines" means the Bank's Guidelines for Using Hedging Products
dated March 23, 2009 or any later guidelines issued by the Bank to replace said
guidelines.
15. 
"ICT" means information and communication technology.
16. 
"ICT Services" means ICT management services including: data storage,
database management, hardware lease, analytics of ICT use, data protection and
software management services.
17. 
"IMSS" means Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, a decentralized public
entity of the Borrower, with separate legal personality, separate budget and fiscal
autonomy, created pursuant to the Social Insurance Law, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
18. 
"IPP" means the Borrower's indigenous peoples plan dated July 30, 2014 and
published August 26, 2014 as said plan may be updated, from time to time, with
the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.
19. 
"Municipality" means any municipio libre, the Borrower's political subdivision
referred to in article 115 of the Borrower's Constitution.
20. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., I.B.D, a Mexican development
bank serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan.
-21-
21. 
"Non-Consulting Services" means the reasonable expenditures incurred on
account of Project implementation to cover reasonable costs of data collection
services, translation services, ICT Services and other services in which the
physical aspects of the activity predominate.
22. 
"OM" means Oficialia Mayor, the finance and administration unit within
SEDESOL (or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank).
23. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, September 10, 2014 dated
satisfactory to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the Bank's
prior approval.
24. 
"Operational 
Rules" 
means the Borrower's 
operational 
rules 
for the
Oportunidades Program published in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Diario
Oficial de la Federaci6n) on December 30, 2013, as these may be replaced by the
rules of the PROSPERA Program and amended from time to time as discussed
with the Bank.
25. 
"Payment Agent" means any entity contracted by BANSEFI to assist in the
carrying out of Part 1 (a) of the Project, and collectively referred to as "Payment
Agents".
26. 
"Payment Agent Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.C.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any other renewal or
amendment thereof satisfactory to the Bank, and collectively referred to as
"Payment Agent Agreements".
27. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 and revised on July 2014.
28. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated September 9, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
29. 
"Project Incremental 
Costs" means the reasonable incremental 
operating
expenditures, based on an allocation previously approved by the Bank and the
Borrower, 
incurred 
by 
SEDESOL, 
required 
for an 
efficient 
Project
implementation, 
administration, 
supervision, 
monitoring 
and 
evaluation,
including costs of said implementing entity's operation and maintenance, but
excluding salaries of SEDESOL's officials and public servants of the Borrower's
civil service as set forth in the Operational Manual.
-22-
30. 
"PROSPERA Beneficiary" means any family living in poverty, identified in
accordance with the methodology set forth in Section 3.2.1, 3.3 and 3.5, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank, of the Operational Rules, collectively
referred to as "PROSPERA Beneficiaries".
31. 
"PROSPERA Conditional Support" means a non-reimbursable contribution made
out of the proceeds of the Loan to a PROSPERA Beneficiary.
32. 
"PROSPERA Program" means the Borrower's program to assist poor families
through the provision of conditional support on compliance with conditions
referred to in the Operational Rules (or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank).
33. 
"Restitution" means paying back the ill-gotten gains to the government or to the
victim of the fraud and corruption, as set forth in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
34. 
"RSDS" means SEDESOL's Regional Social Development Strategy referred to
under Part 2(b) of the Project
35. 
"SAGARPA" means Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural,
Pesca y Alimentacidn, the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural
Development, Fisheries and Food, or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.
36. 
"SE" means Secretaria de Economia, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
37. 
"SEDESOL" means Secretaria de Desarrollo Social, the Borrower's Social
Development Ministry, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
38. 
"SEP" means Secretaria de Educaci6n Ptublica, the Borrower's Public Education
Ministry, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
39. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.
40. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Piblico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.
41. 
"Social and Productive Programs" means any program of the Borrower, the States
or the Municipalities, which supports: (i) closing gaps in access to health,
nutrition, education, housing and other social services; (ii) generating income in
rural areas; and/or (iii) labor in urban areas.
-23-
42. 
"Social Information System" or "SIS" mean the Borrower's integrated Social
Information System developed under Part 2(a) of the Project.
43. 
"SS" means Secretaria de Salud, the Borrower's Health Ministry, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
44. 
"SSPEDR" means Subsecretaria de Planeacion, Evaluaci6n y Desarrollo
Regional, the prospective planning and evaluation 
subsecretariat within
SEDESOL, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
45. 
"State" means any of the thirty one political subdivisions of the Borrower and the
Federal District, collectively referred to as "States".
46. 
"STPS" means Secretaria de Trabajo y Prevision Social the Borrower's Ministry
of Labor and Social Security, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
-24-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if
any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
