90CUMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8331-PE
Loan Agreement
(National Agricultural Innovation System Support Project - Proyecto Consolidaci6n
del Sistema Nacional de Innovaci,n Agraria del Programa Nacional de Innovaci6n
Agraria)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A3 
t 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement, as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan
Agreement), between REPUBLIC OF PERU ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, through its Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
("MINAGRI") has established the National Agricultural Innovation Program (PNIA),
which aims at increasing agricultural innovation in the Borrower's territory.
WHEREAS (B) PNIA is composed of two projects: (i) improving the strategic
innovation services of INIA to be partially financed by the Inter-American Development
Bank; and (ii) National Agricultural Innovation System Support Project, to be partially
financed by the Bank.
Now, therefore the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred 
to 
in 
this 
Agreement, the 
amount 
of forty million 
Dollars
(USD40,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Borrower's Minister of Economy and Finance ("MEF"), or the
Borrower's Director General of Indebtedness and Public Treasury ("DGETP") of
MEF, and/or any person whom he or she shall designate and communicate in
writing to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of 30 days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Steering Committee (Grupo de Trabajo: Comit Directivo) has been
created in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.
(b) 
The UEP has been established within INIA in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement,
but in no case later than eighteen 18 months after the Bank's approval of the
Loan which expire on June 17, 2015.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided
that the Borrower's Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury, may, by him
or herself represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this
Agreement which are considered of an administrative and non-financial nature.
The signing by such Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a
representation by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is
considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Facsimile: +51 (1) 626-9921
-3-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
Ll rr 
Fv 
on behalf of the Bank on
i1 3 
9 0 1 
and at 
1 
, 
0(A 
on behalf of the
Borrower on 
e U
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
Name LUIS MIGUEL CASTILLA RUBIO
Title 
Ministro de Economia y Finanzas
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name 
L 
/v( Ck 
Qr c1 U
Title 
c 
) 1 re 
c
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to create the adequate conditions in the Borrower's
SNIA in order to support the effectiveness of its member organizations in providing or
developing improved agricultural technologies.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component 1: Strengthening Capacity of INIA to lead the SNIA
Strengthening INIA's institutional capacities to lead and coordinate the SNIA, through
inter alia:
(a) the establishment of SNIA's technical secretariat; and
(b) the establishment of an innovation awards program within INIA to
recognize excellence in agricultural innovation.
Component 2: Consolidating the Market for Innovation Services
Supporting the development of a market for innovation systems in the Borrower's
territory, through:
(a) 
the provision of support to Beneficiaries for the carrying out of: (i)
Adaptive Research Subprojects; (ii) Extension Subprojects; and (iii)
Community Seeds Enterprise Subprojects; and
(b) 
the carrying out of awareness campaigns to promote the availability of
the competitive funds described in (a) above, especially among women
and indigenous population groups.
Component 3: Strategic Capacities in the SNIA
Enhancing the capacity of the SNIA to produce and facilitate innovation, through:
(a) 
the provision of support for the carrying out of: (i) Strategic Research
Subprojects; and (ii) Capacity Building Subprojects;
(b) 
the financing, on a competitive basis, of Scholarships to Eligible
Students for postgraduate studies and short term internships; and
-5-
(c) 
the carrying out of awareness campaigns to promote the participation in
the Subprojects described in (a) and the Scholarships described in (b)
above.
Component 4: Project Implementation
Strengthening the institutional and organizational capacities of INIA required for the
successful implementation of Project activities, including compliance with procurement,
safeguards, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation requirements.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
1. The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA, shall:
(a) 
create and thereafter operate and maintain until the completion of the
Project: 
(i) a unit (the UEP) within INIA, responsible 
for the
management, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project; and (ii) within the 24 months after the Effective Date, create and
maintain six (6) regional offices covering the Borrower's territory,
responsible for the coordination of Project activities in remote locations,
including the responsibility to ensure integration and quality of activities
under the Project;
(b) 
cause the unit mentioned in (a) above to maintain, until completion of the
Project, a structure, responsibilities, and key staff with functions,
experience, responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank as
described in the Operational Manual, including: (i) for the UEP, a Project
director, an operations director, an administrative head, a unit head for
market for innovation services, a procurement specialist and a financial
management specialist; and
(c) 
cause the regional offices to maintain each a regional office head, two
technical specialists, and an administrative specialist.
2. 
The Borrower, through MfNAGRI, acting through INIA shall create and
thereafter maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a Steering
Committee (Grupo de Trabajo: Comitd Directivo) in charge of the governance of
the Project, which committee shall have a maximum of seven members, with
functions, powers, resources and competencies acceptable to the Bank, 
as
defined in the Project Operations Manual.
3. 
The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall: (a) prepare and
furnish to the Bank annual operating plans, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the
Project activities to be carried out during the year following the date of
presentation of each such plan, together with the respective sources of funding,
by October 31 of each year during Project implementation;(b) furnish to the Bank
the approved annual operating plans referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
for each year in question, not later than December I of each year during Project
-7-
implementation; and (c) thereafter, implement each of said plans in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall carry out the
Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the
Bank, which shall include the rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and
procedures for the carrying out of the relevant Parts of the Project, including the
following: (i) the detailed description of Project implementation activities and the
detailed institutional arrangements of the Project; (ii) the criteria and methods for
the selection of the Eligible Students; (iii) criteria and methods for the selection
of Beneficiaries; (iv) detailed social, economic, financial, and technical criteria
for the evaluation and ranking for selecting Subprojects; (v) selection criteria for
Scholarships; (vi) guidelines for the adoption of pest management measures in all
applicable activities to be developed under the Project, as identified in the EMF;
(vii) a model form of a Subproject Agreement and a Scholarship Agreement;
(viii) the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement
procedures; (ix) the monitoring indicators for the Project; and (x) rules and
procedures for the provision of no-objection to the hiring of staff assigned to the
UEP. In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict
with this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
5. As part of the process that shall transform INIA into a Specialized Technical
Agency, the Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall:
(a) 
not later than six months after the Effective Date, submit satisfactory
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that an official petition requesting the
change of INIA's status into a Specialized Technical Agency has been
presented by INIA to MINAGRI; and
(b) 
not later than 30 months after the Effective Date, submit satisfactory
evidence to the Bank that INIA has become a Specialized Technical
Agency has been concluded.
B. Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. Subprojects
For the purposes of carrying out Parts 2(a) and 3(a) of the Project, the Borrower
through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall:
-8-
(a) 
after having selected a Subproject in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, enter into an agreement
with the eligible Beneficiary ("Subproject Agreement"), under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank and included in the Operational Manual,
for the provision of Subproject Funds for the implementation of said
Subproject.
(b) 
ensure that each Subproject Agreement is prepared based on the model
form approved by the Bank and included in the Operational Manual, in
which the Borrower, through MINAGRI, acting through [NIA shall: (i)
obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank; (ii)
require each Beneficiary to carry out its pertinent Subproject with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
agricultural, economic, environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds
other than the Borrower, the Environmental Management Framework, and
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Plan;(iii) provide, promptly as needed,
the resources required for the carrying out of the Subproject; (iv) procure
the goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants' services to be
financed out of the Subproject Funds in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement; and (v) enable the UEP and the Bank to inspect the
pertinent Subproject, 
its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and
(c) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Subproject
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through
INIA shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce
any Subproject Agreement or any provisions thereof.
D. Scholarships
1. Prior to the provision of any Scholarship, the Borrower through MINAGRI,
acting through INIA shall enter into an agreement ("Scholarship Agreement")
with the corresponding Eligible Student, under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
2. The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through fNIA shall: (a) exercise its
rights and carry out its obligations under each Scholarship Agreement, in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall not to assign,
-9-
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Scholarship Agreement
(or any provision thereof).
E. Safeguards
1. Environmental Management Framework (EMF)
The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall: (a) implement the
Project in accordance with the EMF; (b) comply with the procedures detailed in
said 
EMF for environmental 
screening, evaluation, 
implementation 
and
monitoring of Subprojects, including the procedures for the preparation of
environmental management plans, if applicable; and (c) implement and/or cause
to be implemented, the pertinent environmental management plan, in accordance
with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP)
The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall implement the
Project in accordance with the IPP.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project Reports
The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall maintain or cause
to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower
through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar semester interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
-10-
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services
1. International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
Procurement Methods:
(a) Limited International Bidding
(b) National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions set
forth in paragraph 3 below
(c) Shopping
(d) Direct Contracting
(e) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable
to the Bank
-ll-
2. 
Special Provisions for National Competitive Bidding. In addition and without
limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this Section or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement
of goods, works and non-consulting services with National Competitive Bidding
procedures under this Section:
(a) 
foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process;
(b) 
no reference value (precio referencial) shall be required for publication
in the bidding documents or used for the purpose of bid evaluation;
(c) 
award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed
in the invitation to bid;
(d) 
foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National Competitive
Biddings without restriction, and shall not be subject to any unjustified
requirement which will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited
to, the requirement to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding documents or
any document related to such bidding documents with either Peruvian
Consulates, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian
authorities as a prerequisite of bidding; and
(e) 
standard bidding documents and standard evaluation formats, all
satisfactory to the Bank, shall be used.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:
-12-
Procurement Methods
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(d) Least Cost Selection
(e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.5 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
3. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern all procurement of consultants' services:
(a) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process;
(b) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with
Peruvian Consulates, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any
Peruvian authorities as a condition of participation in said selection
process;
(c) 
standard requests for proposals and standard evaluation formats, all
satisfactory to the Bank shall be used;
(d) 
foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants' Association that are different from
those required for Peruvian consultants; and
(e) 
no individual consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall,
at the time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as
consultant, hold civil service office or any other position in any agency
or instrumentality of the Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any
right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of
his or her consulting services.
-13-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA may withdraw the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 of the
General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World 
Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures to
(expressed in million 
be financed
USD)
(1) Goods, works, Non-
Consulting Services,
consultants' services, 
3,338,868 
Up to 100%
training and operating cost
for Part 1, 2(b), 3(c) and 4
of the Project
(2) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, 
33,457,932 
Up to 100%
consultant services,
required for Subprojects
(3) Scholarships 
3,203,200 
Up to 100%
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000
-14-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $8,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in Part A
of the previous section may be made prior to this date but on or after
December 17, 2013, but not earlier than 12 months from the date of this
Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under the Project;
(b) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; and
(c) 
under Category (3) unless and until, the Borrower through MINAGRI,
acting through INIA has defined and established the specific mechanism
to administer and control provision of Scholarships in a manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
C. 
Other Undertakings
1 .
The Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA shall:
(a) 
have all the procurement records and documentation, including those for
Subprojects, for each fiscal year of the Project reviewed, in accordance
with 
appropriate 
procurement review 
principles, by 
independent
reviewers acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement external
review report of such review by said reviewers of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement
records and documentation and the procurement review thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 1, 2019.
-15-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2022 
25%
through October 15, 2023
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-16-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
"Adaptive Research Subproject" means any of the investments focused on
adaptive research activities aimed at ensuring sustainable intensification of
agriculture production and/or climate change adaptation, referred to in Part
2(a)(i) of the Project and to be carried out by a Beneficiary in accordance with
relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and to be partly financed with
Subproject Funds under the pertinent Subproject Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on 
Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Beneficiary" 
means, inter alia: (i) with respect to Adaptive Research
Subprojects and Extension Subprojects, small to medium sized producer-based
organization vested with legal personality and/or a group of rural citizens
organized into a legally established private association; (ii) with respect to
Community Seeds Enterprises Subprojects, producer-based seed enterprises; (iii)
with respect to Strategic Research Subprojects, universities, research institutions,
experimental stations, governmental organizations, and producer organizations;
and (iv) with respect to Capacity Building Subprojects, public and private
organizations that offer technical production, climate change resiliency and soft
skills (i.e. extension methods, project design), and extension agents, all of which,
upon meeting the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, are eligible to
receive Subproject Funds for the carrying out of a Subproject.
4. 
"Capacity Building Subprojects" means any investment focused on building the
capacity of extension and technical assistance providers in the Borrower's rural
areas, referred to in Part 3(a)(ii) of the Project and to be carried out by a
Beneficiary approved by the Borrower, through MINAGRI, acting through I-NIA,
in accordance with relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and to be
partly financed with Subproject Funds under the pertinent Subproject Agreement.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Community Seeds Enterprise Subproject" means any investment focused on the
development of quality seeds (basic and certified) treatment, including post-
harvest treatment and storage, referred to in Part 2(a)(iii) of the Project and to be
carried out by a Beneficiary approved by the Borrower, through MINAGRI,
acting through INIA, in accordance with relevant provisions of the Operational
Manual and to be partly financed with Subproject Funds under the pertinent
Subproject Agreement.
-18-
7. 
"Component 1" means component I of the Project, equivalent to the activity
described as "Actividad 1" (Mejoramiento de las Capacidades del INIA como
ente rector del SNIA) and "Componente 1, Actividad 1.1" (Promoci6n del
Mercado de los Servicios de Innovaci6n) in the Informe Tcnico of Borrower's
Direccidn General de Politicas de Inversiones No. 083-2013-EF/63.01 
of
October 23, 2013.
8. 
"Component 2" means component 2 of the Project, equivalent to the activity
described as "Componente 1 del Proyecto de Inversi6n Puiblica No. 1"
(Afianzamiento del Mercado de Servicios de Innovacidn), excluding
"Componente 1, Actividad 1.1" (Promoci6n del Mercado de los Servicios de
Innovaci6n), in the Informe Ticnico of Borrower's Direcci6n General de
Politicas de Inversiones No. 083-2013-EF/63.01 of October 23, 2013.
9. 
"Component 3" means component 3 of the Project, equivalent to the activity
described as "Componente 2 del Proyecto de Inversi6n Piblica No. 1" (Impulso
a la Creaci6n de Competencias Estratigicas en Investigaci6n, mas Desarrollo
mas Innovaci6n) in the Informe Ticnico of Borrower's Direcci6n General de
Politicas de Inversiones No. 083-2013-EF/63.01 of October 23, 2013.
10. 
"Component 4" means component 4 of the Project, equivalent to the activity
described as "Unidad Ejecutora" in the Informe Tienico of Borrower's Direcci6n
General de Politicas de Inversiones No. 083-2013-EF/63.01 of October 23, 2013.
11. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
12. 
"Eligible Student" means an individual who is eligible to benefit from a
Scholarship in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
13. 
"Environmental Management Framework or EMF" means the Borrower's
framework dated September 11, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, as published and
available to the public on the website www.inia.gob.pe, which contains the
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (i)
protection of natural habitats, forests and pest management; (ii) guidelines for the
identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and
indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project
(including Subprojects); (iii) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments and the preparation of environmental management plans, when
applicable; (iv) the recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative
impact identified; and (v) measures for enhancing each identified positive
impacts.
-19-
14. 
"Extension Subproject" means any investment focused on agricultural extension
from an innovation system perspective, referred to in Part 2(a)(ii) of the Project
to be carried out by a Beneficiary approved by the Borrower, through MINAGRI,
acting through INIA, in accordance with relevant provisions of the Operational
Manual and to be partly financed with Subproject Funds under the pertinent
Subproject Agreement.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
16. 
"Indigenous Peoples' Plan or IPP" means the Borrower's plan dated October 8,
2013, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the
website www.inia.gob.pe, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on
Indigenous Peoples as a result of any activity carried out under the Project
(including Subprojects) and to ensure that they benefit from the Project.
17. 
"INIA" means Instituto Nacional de Innovaci6n Agraria, the Borrower's national
institute of agricultural innovation, established pursuant to Legal Decree No.
25902 of November 1992; or any other successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
18. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated November 5, 2013 for the
operation of the Project referred to in Section 1.4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's (through MINAGRI, acting through
INIA) procurement plan for the Project, dated October 14, 2013 and referred to
in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Scholarship" means a contribution made out of the proceeds of the Loan to
finance eligible expenditures, acceptable to the Bank (as the same are determined
in accordance with a formula set forth in the Operational Manual), in respect of
tuition, the cost of living allowance, books and leaming materials, and/or
transportation costs and per-diem (as the case may be), all under Parts 3(b) of the
Project.
22. 
"Scholarship Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.D.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-20-
23. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applied to all references
to "the date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
24. 
"SNIA" means Sistema Nacional de Innovacidn Agraria, the Borrower's national
agricultural innovation system, which includes institutions, principles, norms,
procedures, techniques 
and instruments through which the Borrower, in
collaboration with the private sector and universities promotes the development
of research, technological development, innovation and technology transfer in the
agricultural sector aimed at promoting the modernization and competitiveness of
the Borrower's agricultural sector.
25. 
"Specialized 
Technical Agency" 
means the Borrower's special agencies
regulated by Article 33 of the Borrower's Organic Law of the Executive Branch
(Ley Orgdnica del Poder Ejecutivo) of December 20, 2007, vested with
functional independency and charged with the responsibility of executing,
planning and supervising the Borrower's policies in specific sectors.
26. 
"Steering Committee" means the Borrower's working group within UEP (Grupo
de Trabajo: Comili Directivo), responsible for the governance of PNIA.
27. 
"Strategic Research Subprojects" means any investment focused on strategic
research programs and collaborative research activities referred to in Part 3(a)(i)
of the Project and to be carried out by a Beneficiary approved by the Borrower
through MINAGRI, acting through INIA, in accordance with relevant provisions
of the Operational Manual and to be partly financed with Subproject funds under
the pertinent Subproject Agreement.
28. 
"Subproject" means any Adaptive Research Subproject, Extension Subproject,
Strategic Research Subproject, Community Seeds Enterprise Subproject and/or
Capacity Building Subprojects.
29. 
"Subproject Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA and a Beneficiary as
specified in Section I.C.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30. 
"Subproject Funds" means a contribution made out of the proceeds of the Loan
from the Borrower through MINAGRI, acting through INIA, to a selected
Beneficiary for the partial financing of an eligible Subproject, subject to the
specific terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and in the
relevant Subproject Agreement.
31. 
"UEP" means Unidad Ejecutora del Programa (PNIA), the unit with financial
administrative and economic autonomy, and directly dependent of the head of
INIA, referred to in Section I.A.1(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-21-
