OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8450-AM
Loan Agreement
(Second Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
VA, 
2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8450-AM
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated '9 
/-z " 
-tk4 /y2014, 
between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy five million United States dollars
($ 75,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 1, and August 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article H as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program and its
implementation. To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
-3-
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia
I Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
+374-10-524282
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: z~i 
ZZ
Title: 
Zt 
,-C 
Z,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Name: 
____ 
_
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:
I 
Strengthening the Business Environment
Inspection Reform
1 .
The Borrower has: (a) adopted a new reform strategy for optimization of its inspection
agencies system through Protocol Decree No. 40-59 of September 25, 2014, and (b)
submitted to Parliament a draft "Law on Inspection Bodies" establishing greater
independence, oversight, and transparency of inspections as evidenced by the Prime
Minister's transmittal letter 01/23.18/16012-14 dated September 26, 2014.
Customs Reform
2. 
The Borrower has implemented measures to strengthen its management of cross border
transactions, including through: (i) amendments approved by Parliament on May 20,
2014 to Article 128 of the Customs Code to allow electronic declaration as a valid mode
of customs clearance to expedite processing; (ii) implementation of the "single window
approach" for of goods that require phyto-sanitary control through the initiation of the
process for contracting special software and business process engineering that would
facilitate customs clearance through Government Order No. 02/23.18/13691-14, dated
August 29, 2014.
Air Connectivity
3. 
The Borrower has created a new institutional structure for its oversight of the aviation
sector, which separates the responsibility for policy making and implementation, now to
be handled by the Ministry of Economy, from certification and technical regulation, to be
handled by the General Department of Civil Aviation (GDCA); a multi-stakeholder
council will be in charge of licensing decisions and instructing the GDCA on approvals
of applications for air services to increase transparency and accountability as evidenced
by Government Decrees No. 856-N and No.859-N introducing changes to the Charters of
the Ministry of Economy and of the GDCA, respectively, passed on August 14, 2014;
and Government Decree No. 1022-N of September 25, 2014.
II. Improving Access to Credit
Secure Transactions / Collateral
4. 
The Borrower has adopted in Government Session of August 28, 2014, a series of
legislative changes to create a modem regulatory framework for secure transactions,
allowing the use of moveable assets as collateral for better access to credit, aiming to
benefit small and medium sized companies, which include: a) Law on Registration of
Rights in Movable Assets, b) Law on Amendments to Civil Code, c) Law on
-6-
Amendments to Criminal Code, d) Law on Amendments to the Law on Registration of
Legal Entities, e) Law on Amendments to the Law on Judicial Enforcement, f) Law on
Amendments to the Law on State Property Rights, g) Law on Amendments on Banks and
Banking, h) Law on Amendments on Insurance, i) Law on Amendments on Limited
Companies, j) Law on Amendments on Mining Code, k) Law on Amendments on Law
on trademarks, 1) Law on Amendments on Law on Aviation, m) Law on Amendments on
Tax Law, n) Law on Amendments on State Duty; and submitted said legislative draft
changes to Parliament through Prime Minister's transmittal letter dated September 5,
2014 No 01/23.18/14616-14 and respective attachments.
III. Improving Efficiency and Transparency of Public Administration
Civil Service Reform
5. 
The Borrower through the Civil Service Council Decree No. 833-A dated September 23,
2014, has strengthened its performance evaluation system, by adopting a comprehensive
and mandatory job description catalogue specifying administrative and professional
requirements and competencies for about fifty occupations in the Civil Service.
e-Government
6. 
The Borrower has: (i) adopted through Protocol Decree No 14 dated April 10, 2014 a
Strategy and an Action Plan for creating e-government applications (including further
requirements for e-signatures, electronic administrative registries, information access,
and interoperability requirements for databases, etc.), and (ii) initiated the Strategy's
implementation with the submission to Parliament of a draft "Law on Personal Data
Protection" and a draft "Law on Amendments to the Law on e-Signature and e-
Documentation" as evidenced by the Prime Minister's transmittal letter dated September
5, 2014, No. 01/23.18/14668-14 and its respective attachments.
IV. 
Improving Fiscal Space and the Management of Environmental Resources
Tax Revenue Mobilization
7. 
The Borrower has: (i) improved tax mobilization through submitting to Parliament a
draft "Law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax", which discontinues the
exemption from VAT of financial brokerage services as evidenced by the Prime
Minister's transmittal letter dated September 19, 2014, No. 01/23.18/15551-14, and (ii)
approved the package for the draft 2015 State Budget, in Government Session of
September 25, 2014, including a "Report on Tax Exemptions" in its Explanatory Note,
which explains and provides revenue impact estimates of major tax expenditures
transmitted to Parliament on October 2, 2014.
Sustainability of Public Infrastructure
8. 
The Borrower has: (i) adopted an Action Plan on Drinking Water Sector Reforms,
including the decision to create a new, nation-wide lease contract through the approval of
Government Decree No. N883-N dated August 14, 2014, and (ii) has started the Action
Plan's implementation by issuing the tender for the transactions advisory for a new lease
-7-
contract, 
as 
evidenced 
by 
the 
announcement 
published 
on: 
www.scws.am,
www.procurement.am, and in the government's official newsletter dated September 11,
2014.
Mainstream Environmental Sustainability in the Mining Sector
9. 
The Borrower has strengthened its management of public resources through: (i)
Parliament approval of the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment on June 21, 2014
and necessary amendments to the same law on September 11, 2014 (ii) the approval of
the "one-stop-shop (OSS)" for mining rights in line with environmental and social
guidelines, as evidenced by Government Protocol Decree No. 29.6/209727-14(37) of
September 4, 2014.
V. 
Expanding Social Assistance
10. 
The Borrower through Parliament approval of 2014 State Budget on December 12, 2013,
and Government Decree No. 1515-N of December 26, 2013 has extended the coverage
of the health benefits (waiver of co-payments) to the same group of households covered
by the Family Benefits Program.
Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
74,812,500
(2) Front-end Fee 
187,500
TOTAL AMOUNT 
75,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
-8-
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon the deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2015.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February I and August 1
Beginning August 1, 2029 
4.76%
through February 1, 2039
On August 1, 2039 
4.80%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-10-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-ll-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
-12-
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
2. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the 
"International 
Bank for 
Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
3. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated October 6, 2014, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
4. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
-13-
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-14-
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified
to read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the
word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
