LOAN NUMBER 8327-BR
Loan Agreement
(Strengthening Public Management and Integrated Territorial Development
Technical Assistance Project - Programa de Fortalecimento da Gestdo do Setor
Piblico e do Desenvolvimento Territorial Integrado
RIO METROPOLE PROGESTAO II)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
Dated 
BO 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
cA072  3O 
, 
2014, 
between
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTOIN 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and STATE RIO DE JANEIRO (Borrower). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty eight million Dollars
($48,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is its Secretary of Public Works.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request 
any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the
Program. To this end, the Borrower shall carry out, under the overall oversight of
the Coordination Committee: (a) Part 1(a) of the Project through SEOBRAS; (b)
Part 1(b) of the Project through SEOBRAS, in coordination with SETRANS; (c)
Part 1(c) of the Project through SEOBRAS, in coordination with SEH, CEHAB
and ITERJ; (d) Part 1(d) of the Project through SEPLAG, in coordination with
SEDEC, 
INEA and DRM; (e) Part 2(a) of the Project through SEPLAG, in
coordination with SEASDH; (f) Part 2(b) of the Project through SEFAZ, in
2
coordination with MP; (g) Part 2(c) of the Project through SEPLAG, in
coordination with SEEDUC; (h) Part 2(d) of the Project through SEPLAG, in
coordination with SES; (i) Part 3 of the Project through SEFAZ; and (j) Part 4 of
the Project through SEOBRAS, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that the
Program shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely
that the SEOBRAS Project Management Unit has been created and fully staffed
in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on August 12, 2015.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Governor.
3
6.02. 
The Recipient's Address is:
Vice-Governadoria do Estado
PalAcio Guanabara - Anexo
Rua Pinheiros Machado, s/n, 40 andar, Laranjeiras
22231-090 - Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Facsimile (55-21) 2334-3223
With copies to:
Secretaria de Planejamento e Gestdo
Avenida Erasmo Braga, 118, 130 andar
20020-000 - Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-21) 2332-7020
Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda
Avenida Presidente Vargas, 670, 150 andar
20071-001 - Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Facsimile (55-21) 2334-4513
Secretaria de Estado de Obras
Rua M6xico, 125, 90 andar, Centro
20031-145 - Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Facsimile (55-21) 2333-0877
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
4
AGREED atAi 
J" 4tOA 
rea 
se of the
day and year first above writt'n.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A 
orized Representative
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
By
Aut 
' ed 
present 
e
5
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower to improve service
delivery through introducing performance-based management information technologies
and an Integrated Territorial Development Approach in key public services.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Stren2thening metropolitan management throu2h inte2ration and
coordination in urban development, housing, transport, environment, and
disaster risk mana2ement.
(a) 
Strengthening of the Borrower's metropolitan governance framework
through, inter alia: (i) monitoring and evaluating territorial development
impacts; and (ii) the development of an integrated master plan for
metropolitan urban development.
(b) 
Strengthening of the Borrower's metropolitan transport management
capacity through, inter alia: (i) the evaluation and consolidation of the
existing transportation ticketing system (Bilhete Unico); (ii) the
definition of an action plan for the revision of the AMTU-RJ's role; and
(iii) the strengthening of the AGETRANSP institutional capacity.
(c) 
Strengthening of the Borrower's metropolitan housing management
capacity through, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of technical studies to
develop an institutional strengthening proposal for the SEH and the
CEHAB; (ii) the carrying out of technical studies to design low income
housing programs and integrate those programs with social programs;
and (iii) the design of an integrated plan for sustainable urban land
regularization.
(d) 
Improvement of the Borrower's disaster risk management capacity and
early warning system for high rainfall events through, inter alia: (i) the
development 
and 
implementation of hardware for the existing
Borrower's early warning system to monitor and respond to geological
and hydrological disaster risks; (ii) the carrying out of a study to model
the hydrological disaster warning system, including basic protocols to be
used by the Borrower and its municipalities; (iii) the mapping of the
Borrower's landslide and flood risks; and (iv) the carrying out of training
to various Borrower's disaster risk management teams.
6
Part 2. Improvin2 living conditions in the most vulnerable social settings
(a) 
Strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to implement an integrated and
evidence -based medium-term social development strategy through, inter
alia, the support to the Borrower's restructuring and strategic planning
process for social programs by: (i) developing and implementing a
strategic plan for the SEASDH; (ii) carrying out technical studies to
design a model for a monitoring and evaluation system, and acquisition
of information management hardware and software; (iii) strengthening of
existing public sector management procedures and administrative
systems; 
and 
(iv) 
strengthening 
the 
SUAS' 
management 
and
effectiveness capacity.
(b) 
Enhancement of the Borrower's capacity to identify, locate and support
missing and involuntarily interned people through, inter alia: (i) the
development of a software and a methodology (for reporting, classifying
and analyzing data on missing people) to implement the PLID; and (ii)
the extension of the MSM Information System to all the hospitals located
in the Borrower's territory.
(c) 
(i) Strengthening of the Borrower's: (A) education management capacity
including 
evidence-based 
policy making capacity 
for secondary
education; and (B) management capacity on school infrastructure; and
(ii) enhancement of the quality of secondary education, all through, inter
alia: (1) the expansion of SEEDUC's analytical and system management
capacity; (2) the evaluation of infrastructure conditions in the Borrower's
secondary schools; and (3) the development and implementation of a 4-
year plan to 
build 
and refurbish 
necessary 
secondary 
school
infrastructure.
(d) 
Strengthening of the Borrower's health monitoring and evaluation
processes and public hospitals' information systems through, inter
alia:(i) the evaluation of the comparative performance of different
models of organizing and delivering primary health care; and (ii) the
analysis and restructuring of administrative and clinical processes in
public hospitals.
Part 3. Strenmthenin2 core finance and taxation functions
Development and adoption of new practices aimed at strengthening the
Borrower's tax administration and financial management systems through, inter alia: (a)
(i) the carrying out of technical studies to develop a methodology for estimating lost
revenue due to tax waivers, (ii) the development of proposed revisions to the tax
collection procedures, and (iii) the design and implementation of diagnostic mechanisms
needed to implement best practices in debt management; (b) the implementation of a
A- 
7
control system for the Borrower's Automobile Property Tax (IPVA); (c) the development
of procedures, processes, manuals and databases to improve the management and costing
of public investment programs, to better assess medium term implications of fiscal policy
decisions; and (d) the provision of training for technical specialists and managers.
Part 4. Project Manaement
Provision of support for the overall management of the Project.
8
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
(a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause INEA, DRM, ITERJ, CEHAB and MP to
carry out the pertinent Project activities under their responsibility in accordance
with the Project Operational Manual, the Procurement Plan and (b) except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision
of these documents without the Bank's prior written approval. In case of any
conflict between the terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
For purposes of the carrying out of Parts 1(d), 2(a), 2(c), and 2(d) of the Project,
the Borrower, through SEPLAG, shall operate and maintain, until the completion
of the execution of the Project, a Project management unit (the SEPLAG Project
Management Unit), with competent staff, in adequate numbers and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance, as
applicable, with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, including the
following key staff: a general coordinator, a financial management specialist and
a procurement specialist.
3. 
For purposes of the carrying out of Parts 1(a), 1(b), 1(c) and 4 of the Project, the
Borrower, through SEOBRAS, shall create and thereafter operate and maintain,
until the completion of the execution of the Project, a Project management unit
(the SEOBRAS Project Management Unit) with competent staff, in adequate
numbers and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, and in
accordance, as applicable, with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule,
including the following key staff: a general coordinator, a financial management
specialist and a procurement specialist.
4. 
For purposes of the carrying out of Parts 2 (b) and 3 of the Project, the Borrower,
through SEFAZ, shall operate and maintain, until the completion of the execution
of the Project, a Project management unit (the SEFAZ Project Management Unit)
with competent staff, in adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance, as applicable, with the provisions of
Section III of this Schedule, including the following key staff: a general
coordinator, a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist.
5. 
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain, throughout the
implementation of the Project, a coordination committee (the Coordination
Committee), overseen by the Vice Governor's Office and including members of
9
all the Project Management Units, with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank, as set forth in the Project Operational Manual, including the overall
supervision and coordination of activities among the Project Management Units.
6. 
For purposes of implementing Part 1(d) of the Project, the Borrower, not later
than 30 days after the Effectiveness Date, shall enter into separate agreements
with INEA and DRM (the INEA and DRM Agreements), under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Project Operational
Manual, including, inter alia: (a) the obligation of the Borrower to: (i) support
the implementation of Part 1(d) of the Project by providing INEA and DRM, as
the case may be, with all the required goods, consultant services and non-
consulting services to carry out the Project activities under its responsibility; and
(ii) abide by the technical decisions made by INEA and DRM with respect to the
implementation of Part 1(d) of the Project; and (b) the obligation of INEA and,
as the case may be, to: (i) provide technical support and leadership for, and
coordinate the technical aspects of, the carrying out of Part 1(d) of the Project, all
with due diligence and efficiency in conformity with appropriate administrative,
technical, environmental and social standards and practices, and in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement, the INEA Agreement and the DRM
Agreement, as the case may be, the Project Operational Manual, and the Anti-
corruption Guidelines; and (ii) take or permit to be taken all action to enable the
Borrower to comply with its obligations under this Agreement. The Borrower
shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the INEA Agreement
and DRM Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project; and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive, terminate or
fail to enforce the INEA Agreement and/or the DRM Agreement or provision
thereof. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the INEA
Agreement and/or the DRM Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
7. 
For purposes of implementing Part 2(b) of the Project, the Borrower, not later
than 30 days after the Effectiveness Date, shall enter into an agreement with MP
(MP Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth
in the Project Operational Manual, including inter alia: (a) the obligation of the
Borrower to: (i) support the implementation of Part 2(b) of the Project by
providing MP with all the required goods, consultant services and non-consulting
services to carry out the Project activities under its responsibility; and (ii) abide
by the technical decisions made by MP with respect to the implementation of
Part 2(b) of the Project; and (b) the obligation of MP to: (i) provide technical
support and leadership for, and coordinate the technical aspects of, the carrying
out of Part 2(b) of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency in conformity
with appropriate administrative, technical, environmental and social standards
and practices, and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the MP
Agreement, the Project Operational Manual, and the Anti-corruption Guidelines;
10
and (ii) take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower to comply
with its obligations under this Agreement. The Borrower shall exercise its rights
and carry out its obligations under the MP Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Project; and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the MP Agreement
or provisions thereof. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of
the MP Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
8. 
For purposes of implementing Part 1(c) of the Project, the Borrower, through
SEH, not later than 30 days after the Effectiveness Date, shall enter into separate
agreements with CEHAB and ITERJ (the CEHAB and ITERJ Agreements) under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, including inter alia: (a) the obligation of the Borrower to:
(i) support the implementation of Part 1(c) of the Project by providing CEHAB
and ITERJ, as the case may be, with all the required goods, consultant services
and non-consulting services to carry out the Project activities under its
responsibility; and (ii) abide by the technical decisions made by CEHAB and
ITERJ, as the case may be, with respect to the implementation of Part 1(c) of the
Project; and (b) the obligation of CEIAB and ITERJ to: (i) provide technical
support and leadership for, and coordinate the technical aspects of, the carrying
out of Part 1(c) of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency in conformity
with appropriate administrative, technical, environmental and social standards
and practices, and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the CEHAB
and ITERJ Agreements, as the case may be, the Project Operational Manual, and
the Anti-corruption Guidelines; and (ii) take or permit to be taken all action to
enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under this Agreement. The
Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the CEHAB
and ITERJ Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project; and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive, terminate or
fail to enforce the CEHAB and ITERJ Agreements or provisions thereof. In the
event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the CEHAB and/or ITERJ
Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
11
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause, whenever necessary, DRM, INEA, MP,
CEHAB and ITERJ to: (i) ensure that the Project activities under their
responsibility are carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management
Framework; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank any needed Environmental
Management Plan, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental
Management Framework, and acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) immediately
thereafter, implement each Environmental Management Plan in accordance with
its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause, whenever necessary, DRM, INEA MP,
CEHAB and ITERJ to: (i) ensure that the Project activities are carried out in
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework; (ii) prepare and furnish to
the Bank any needed resettlement action plan, in accordance with the provisions
of the Resettlement Policy Framework, and acceptable to the Bank; and (iii)
immediately thereafter, implement each Resettlement Plan in accordance with its
terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank."
3. 
With respect to the technical assistance activities to be provided under the
Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause DRM, MP, INEA, CEHAB and
ITERJ (as the case may be) to, ensure that the terms of reference for said Project
activities shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof, and to
that end such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the
applicable Bank Safeguard Policies, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through the Coordination Committee, shall monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project and shall prepare Project Reports in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
performance indicators set forth in the Project Operational Manual. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.
12
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through SEOBRAS, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through SEOBRAS, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than thirty
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through SEOBRAS, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
13
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consulting services.
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods
may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, including in respect of goods and non-
consulting services, pregdo eletr6nico (set forth in the Guarantor's Law No
10.520 of July 17, 2002), subject to the following additional procedure,
namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank
(b) Shopping, including in respect of goods and non-consulting services, pregdo
eletr6nico (set forth in the Guarantor's Law No 10.520 of July 17, 2002),
subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding
documents shall be acceptable to the Bank.
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(b) Least-Cost Selection
(c) Selection Based on the Consultant's Qualifications
(d) Single-Source Selection
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth
in Paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the Bank.
14
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non- 
48,000,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultant services
Operating Costs, and
Training under the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
48,000,000
3. 
For the purposes of this table:
(a) the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for non-consulting
services) incurred in connection with the carrying out of training activities,
seminars, and workshops under the Project, including the reasonable travel
cost, accommodation and per-diem of the trainers and trainees (as the case
may be), training materials, rental costs of training facilities and scholarships
(tuition only);
(b) the term "Operating Costs" means the operational costs, which would not
have been incurred by the respective Project Management Unit, absent the
15
Project, for, inter alia, operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel,
spare parts and insurance, maintenance of the Project's monitoring and
information system, travel and per diem costs for technical staff carrying out
supervisory and quality control activities, 
equipment and computer
maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and rent for office facilities, but
excluding expenditures for salaries and related benefits; and
(c) the term "Non-consultant services" means expenditures related to services of
technical nature, which do not have an intellectual component, and that can
be contracted solely on the basis of price, including, inter alia, catering,
publications and printing.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,600,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 17,
2013, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1), but in no case more than
one year prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017. The Bank shall only grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank
that it agrees with such extension.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
Without limitations to the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General
Conditions, no later than one year after the Effective Date, or such other date as
the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out jointly with the
Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of the Project, which shall cover
the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project; and (b) following
such mid-term review, act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action
as shall be recommended by the Bank.
16
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2018
through May 15, 2038 
2.44%
On November 15, 2038 
2.40%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan
Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid
on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such
withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment
Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal
Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") and the denominator of which
is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment
Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
17
3. 
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the
date of withdrawal.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at
any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of
such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the
adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
18
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"AGETRANSP" means Agencia Reguladora de Serviqos Pblicos Concedidos de
Transportes Aquavidrios, Ferroviarios e Metrovidrios e de Rodovias do Estado
do Rio de Janeiro, the Borrower's Public Services Regulatory Agency, or any
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
"AMTU-RJ" means Agincia Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos, Borrower's
Metropolitan Urban Transport Agency, or any successor thereto satisfactory to
the Bank.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and TDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the World Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the World Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 published at
www.WorldBank.or/opmanual.
5. 
"CEHAB" means Companhia Estadual de Habitaqdo, the Borrower's Housing
Company as created and operating under the Borrower's Law 263 dated
December 24, 1962, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December
24, 1962, and Decree No 39 dated March 24, 1975, published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on March 24, 1975, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the
Bank.
6. 
"CEHAB Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I. A. 8 of this
Agreement.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 2011.
9. 
"Coordination Committee" means the Borrower's committee referred to in
Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19
10. 
"DRM" means Departamento de Recursos Minerais, the Borrower's Department
of Mineral Resources, as created and operating under DRM Legislation, or any
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
11. 
"DRM Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I. A. 6 of this
Agreement.
12. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Borrower's
environmental management framework, acceptable to the Bank, dated December
2011, published on www.progestao.rj.gov.br on December 20, 2011, and referred
to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means any environmental management plan,
acceptable to the Bank, as referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
14. 
"Escola SEEDUC" means the Borrower's program, as created and operating
under the Borrower's Law No 5.693 dated April 16, 2010, for in-service training
of teachers of the Borrower's secondary education network.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
16. 
"INEA" means Instituto Estadual do Ambiente, the Borrower's Environmental
Institute, as created and operating under NEA Legislation, or any successor
thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
17. 
"INEA Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I. A. 6 of this
Agreement.
18. 
"Integrated Territorial Development Approach" means the approach taken by the
Borrower to harmonize and coordinate planning and service delivery at the level
of the Borrower's metropolitan region.
19. 
"IT" means information technology.
20. 
"ITERJ" means Instituto de Terras e Cartografia do Estado do Rio de Janeiro,
the Borrower's Land and Mapping Institute as created and operating under the
Borrower's Law 1.738 dated November 5, 1990, published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on November 6, 1990, and Law 2.695 dated February 19, 1997,
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 2, 1997.
21. 
"ITERJ Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I. A. 8 of this
Agreement.
20
22. 
"MP" means Ministirio Pblico do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, the Borrower's
public prosecutor.
23. 
"MP Agreement" means an agreement referred to in Section I. A. 7 of this
Agreement.
24. 
"MSM Information System" means the Borrower's Mental Health Module
(M6dulo Saude Mental) Information System, created by the Borrowers
Resolution No 1.784 dated December 4, 2012, for the purposes of registering and
managing more efficiently data relating to people who are involuntarily interned
for medical and/or psychiatric reasons (such as drugs and alcohol addictions or
mental health illnesses), and ensuring a higher level of accountability and control
over the assistance and services provided to said people or any successor thereto
satisfactory to the Bank.
25. 
"PLID" means Programa de Identiflcagdo e Localizaqdo de Desaparecidos, the
Borrower's Program for the Identification and Localization of missing people,
established pursuant to the Borrower' Resolution No 1.716 dated February 7,
2012.
26. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 2011.
27. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 27, 2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
28. 
"Program" means PRO-GESTAO, the Borrower's program to improve public
administration and management, as established and operating under the
Borrower's Law No 5.282, dated June 30, 2008, as amended by Law No 5.336,
dated November 28, 2008.
29. 
"Project Management Units" means collectively the SEFAZ Project Management
Unit, the SEOBRAS Project Management Unit and the SEPLAG Project
Management Unit.
30. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the operational manual for the Project, dated
September 27, 2013, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain, inter alia: (i)
the functions and responsibilities of the personnel of the Project Management
Units in charge of daily Project coordination and monitoring; (ii) the procedures
for procurement of goods, non-consulting services and consultants' services for
the Project, as well as for financial management and Project audits of the Project;
(iii) the flow of funds and disbursement arrangements of the Project; and (iv) the
staffing plan for the Project Management Units.
21
31. 
"Resettlement" means: (i) the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (A) standard of living
adversely affected; or (B) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (C) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (D) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the
displaced persons.
32. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework", whenever necessary, means the Borrower's
framework dated November 2011, acceptable to the Bank, which sets forth, inter
alia, the principles and objectives governing Resettlement preparation and
implementation, and a description of the process for preparing and approving
Resettlement Plans under the Project published on www.progestao.rj.gov.br on
December 20, 2011, and referred to in Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
33. 
"SEASDH" means Secretaria Estadual de Assistencia Social e Direitos Humanos,
the Borrower's Secretariat of Social Assistance and Human Rights, as created
and operating under the Borrower's Decree No 40.486 dated January 1, 2007, or
any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
34. 
"SEDEC" means Secretaria de Defesa Civil, the Borrower's Secretariat for Civil
Defense, as created and operating under the Borrower's Decree No 43.017, dated
June 9, 2011, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
35. 
"SEEDUC" means Secretaria de Educaqdo, the Borrower's Secretariat for
Education, as created and operating under the Borrower's Decree No 40.486
dated January 1, 2007, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
36. 
"SEFAZ" means Secretaria Estadual da Fazenda, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Finance as created and operating under the Borrower's Decree No 40.613, dated
February 16, 2007, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
37. 
"SEFAZ Project Management Unit" means the Project management unit referred
to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement within SEFAZ in charge of
the daily implementation of the Parts of the Project referred to in said section,
and operating under the SEFAZ Project Management Unit Regulation.
38. 
"SEH" means Secretaria Estadual de Habitaqdo, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Housing, as created and operating under the Borrower's Decree N0 32.621 dated
January 1, 2007, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on January 1,
2007, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
22
39. 
"SEOBRAS" means Secretaria Estadual de Obras, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Public Works, as created and operating under the Borrower's Decree No 40.486
dated January 1, 2007, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on January
1, 2007, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
40. 
"SEOBRAS Project Management Unit" means the Project management unit
referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement within SEOBRAS
in charge of the daily implementation of the Parts of the Project referred to in
said section, and operating under the SEOBRAS Project Management Unit
Regulation.
41. 
"SEPLAG" means Secretaria de Planejamento e Gestdo, the Borrower's
Secretariat for Planning and Management, as created and operating under the
Borrower's Decree No 40.486 dated January 1, 2007, or any successor thereto
satisfactory to the Bank.
42. 
"SEPLAG Project Management Unit" means the Project management unit
referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement within SEPLAG in
charge of the daily implementation of the Project and operating under the
Project Management Unit Regulation.
43. 
"SES" means Secretaria Estadual de Sadde, the Borrower's Secretariat of Health,
created and operating under the Borrower's Decree No 40.486 dated January 1,
2007, modified by the Borrower's Decree No 43.017 dated June 9, 2011, or any
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
44. 
"SETRANS" means Secretaria Estadual de Transporte, the Borrower's,
Secretariat of Transport, as created and operating under the Borrower's Decree
No 40.486 dated January 1, 2007, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
January 1, 2007, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
45. 
"SUAS" means Sistema Unico de Assistincia Social, Universal Social Assistance
System.
46. 
"Vice Governor's Office" means Vice-Governadoria do Estado do Rio de
Janeiro, the Borrower's vice governor's office.
23
