LOAN NUMBER 8346-CN
Loan Agreement
(Heilongjiang Cold Weather Smart Public Transportation System Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8346-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
& 
Al, 2014, between TH 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTEANATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to -them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Troject").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04, 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the-Loan Currency plus the VariableSpread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisionis of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when dud and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt -management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: {A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate -based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate- based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable.to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as definiedt in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate tap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower-has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon .the proi'isions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTWENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement..
-2-
4i
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance..
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile: 86-10-6855-1125
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Beijing, China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
(VA-0t
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO1
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
.
Name: 
**
.Title:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to upgrade the quality and efficiency of public transport
services in selected public transport corridors in the Project Cities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Public Transport Corridor Improvement
1. 
Harbin City. Improvement of selected public transport corridors, including: (a) improving
pavement conditions and developing new lane configurations to provide dedicated bus-
priority lanes, bike lanes, and pedestrian facilities; and (b) installing bus stops and
providing heated indoor bus waiting.facilities, underground conduits and pipelines, and
sidewalk and roadside parking improvement.
2. 
Mudanjiang City. Improvement of selected public transport corridors and' a non-
motorized transport road system, including: (a) improving pavement conditions and
developing new lane configurations to provide dedicated bus-priority lanes, bike lanes;
and pedestrian facilities; and (b) installing bus stops and providing heated indoor bus
waiting facilities, underground conduits and-pipelines, and sidewalk and roadside parking
improvement.
Part B: Public Transport Infrastructure Improvement
1. 
Harbin City. Improvement of public transport infrastructure through, inter alia: (a)
procurement of clean-fuel accessible buses; (b) establishment of a -public transport
command center;. (c) construction and/or rehabilitation of passenger hubs, bus terminals
and waiting areas, depots and garages, as. well as maintenance, safety education and bus
driver training facilities;' and (d) implementation of intelligent transport system
applications and other information technology.
2. 
Mudanjiang City. Improvement of public transport infrastructure through, inter alia: (a)
procurement of clean-fuel accessible buses; (b) construction and/or rehabilitation of
passenger -hubs, bus terminals and waiting areas, depots and garages, as well as
maintenance, safety education and bus driver training facilities; and (c) implementation
of intelligent transport system applications and other information technology.
Part C: Traffic Management and Safety Improvement
1 .
Harbin City. Improvement of efficiency and safety aspects of the public transport system,
through inter alia: (a) the upgrading of traffic control systems, including traffic signals
and markings with bus priority function and pedestrian crossings safety; (b) the
acquisition and/or upgrading of traffic monitoring and violation detection systems; (c) the
development and implementation of real time traffic information and traffic guidance
systems; and (d) provision of traffic safety education.
-5-
2. 
Mudanjiang City. Improvement of efficiency and safety aspects of the public transport
system, through inter alia: (a) the upgrading of traffic control systems, including traffic
signals and markings with bus priority function and pedestrian crossings safety; (b) the
acquisition and/or upgrading of traffic monitoring and violation detection systems; (c) the
development and implementation of real, time traffic information and traffic guidance
systems; and (d) provision of traffic safety education.
Part D: Emergency Response and Road Maintenance
Development of an effective emergency and road maintenance system in Harbin City,
including the acquisition of equipment for: (i) road, bridge and tunnel inspection; (ii)
underground utility detection; (iii) road maintenance; and (iv) emergency response.
Part E: Capacity Building
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of Harbin Municipality to implement the Project, through
supporting improvements to the institutional and financing framework within which
public transport services are developed and, operated in Harbin City, including through:
(a) the carrying out of urban transport related studies; (b) the development of a public
traffic safety education program, including public awareness campaigns and public
consultation; (c) development of transport planning and management strategies; (d)
exploration of a new ownership and regulatory.structure for public transport investment;
(e) provision of support for Project management, monitoring and evaluation; and (f) the
carrying out of training and knowledge-sharing activities,' with a focus on urban transport
and public traffic safety initiatives.
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of Mudanjiang Municipality to implement the Project, through
supporting improvements to the institutional and financing framework within which
public transport services are developed and operated in Mudanjiang City, including
through: (a) the carrying out of urban transport related studies; (b) the development of a
public traffic safety education program, including public awareness campaigns and public
consultation; (c) development of transport planning and management strategies; (d)
exploration of a new ownership and regulatory structure for public transport investment;
(e) provision of support for Project management, monitoring and evaluation; and (f) the
carrying out of training and knowledge-shringactivities, with a focus on urban transport
and public traffic safety initiatives.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Seetion 2.07(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be recovered
over a period of twenty five (25) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5)
years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
.from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time t6
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents
and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the
Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure. that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-7-
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, take all measures
necessary to comply with the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall 'cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Results Framework. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial-Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The 'Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. The
Borrower shall make, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to make, the audited
Financial Statements publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
Section 1U. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
*Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
-8-
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, m, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct Contracting, and (c) Shopping.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts. awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower's Law on
Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999;
provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section M, and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall
govern.
(i) 
Eligibility'to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or -potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All Invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely used website /
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated
to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient
time.for rospective bidders to'obtain 
ualification or biddin documents
-9-
and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the. date of such advertisement (or
the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later) and the
deadline for the submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for the submission of bids. In the case of
such advertisement on a website / electronic portal, the notice shall remain
readily accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline for
the submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and
purchase bidding documents at any time prior to the deadline for the
submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be
used for large, complex and/or specialized works. 
Verification of the
information upon. which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along with the
bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that
meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall
be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified
bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder
who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a cdndition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. 
A bidder
determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given
reasonable opportunity of registering (if,required) before contract signing
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility
contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.
-10-
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity
to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of
bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the -bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin -or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as
the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined. (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to. undertake
responsibilities for work or to. assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding ddcuments or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy.to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set.forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding. document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they
can establish that they. (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.
(xvii) 
Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: A the name of
-11-
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read.out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;
(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as
well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall
be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review. 
The bidding
documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means
by which the information on contract award will be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may
be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for
bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title
and address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following fable
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) 
Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual)
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-12-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower -(including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the. Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in!JSD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) HARBIN:
(a) Civil works under Parts, 
33,700,000 
35%
A.1, B.1 and C.1 of the
Project
(b) Goods under Parts B.1(a) 
35,090,000 
100%
and B.1(b) of the Project
(c) Goods (other than those -
19,580,000 
40%
under sub-Category (b)
above), under Parts B. 1,
C.1, D and E.1 of the
Project
(d) Consultant's services, 
5,620,000 
.
100%
Incremental Operating
Costs, Training and
Workshops under Parts
B.1, C.1, D and E.1 of the
Project 
._.
(2) MUDANJIANG:
(a) Civil works under Parts 
46,710,000 
35%
A.2, B.2 and C.2 of the
Project
(b) Goods, consultants
services, Incremental 
47,740,000 
100%
Operating Costs, Training
and Workshops under
Parts A.2, B.2, C.2 and
E.2 of the Project
-13-
(3) Interest on the Loan' 
11,060,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
accrued on or before the last 
Section 2.04 of this
Payment Date immediately 
Agreement in accordance with
preceding the Closing Date 
Section 2.07 (c) of the General
Conditions
(4) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
.__ _ _Conditions
(5) Interest Rate 
Cap 
or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000 
.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2014 for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share'
(Expressed as a Percentage)
June 15, 2019 
1.48%
December 15, 2019 
1.52%
June 15, 2020' 
1.56%
December 15, 2020 
1.59%
June 15,2021 
1.63%
December 15, 2021 
1.67%
June 15,2022 
1.72%
December 15, 2022 
1.76%
June 15, 2023 
1.80%
December 15, 2023 
1.85%
.June 15, 2024. 
1.89%
December 15, 2024 
.
1.94%
June 15, 2025 
1.99%
December 15, 2025 
2.04%
. June 15,2026- 
2.09%
December 15, 2026 
2.14%
June 15, 2027 
2.20%
December 15, 2027 
2.25%
June 15, 2028 
2.31%
December 15, 2028 
2.37%
'June 15, 2029 
2.43%
December 15,2029 
2.49%
June 15, 2030- 
2.55%
December 15, 2030 
2.61%
June 15,2031 -
2.68%
December 15,2031 
2.74%
June 15, 2032 
2.81%
December 15,.2032 
2.88%
June 15, 2033 
2.95% 
.
December 15, 2033 
-
3.03%
.-
15-
June 15, 2034 
3.10%
December 15, 2034 
3.18%
June 15,2035 
3.26%
December 15, 2035 
3.34%
June 15, 2036 
3.43%
December 15, 2036 
3.51%
June 15, 2037 
3.60%
December 15, 2037 
3.69%
June 15, 2038 
3.78%
Decembey 15, 2038 
4.14%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies. 
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date,billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
sUch billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any*
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
-16-
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank .so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provis,ions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1I 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under II3RD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bahk Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
4. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
5. 
"Environmental Management Plans" or the acronym "EMPs" means: 
(a) the
Environmental Impact Report for Mudanjiang Cold Weather Transportation System
Project, dated November 2013, and (b).the Environmental Impact Report for Harbin
Alpine-Cold Intelligent Public Traffic System Construction Project, dated November
2013, in each case incorporating an environmental management plan, prepared and
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity and the Project Municipalities, and
acceptable to the Bank, and any other EMPs to be prepared by the Project Implementing
Entity and/or the Project Municipalities, which plans set out the environmental protection
measures, including measures for the protection of physical cultural resources, in respect
of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangement to ensure the
implementation of said plans, as said plans- may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto.
6. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
7. 
"Harbin Bus Company" means the state-owned limited liability company established and
operating pursuant to its Charter dated July 22, 1992, and to Business License No.
230100100001522 dated September 4, 2013, issued by Harbin Industry and Commerce
Administration Bureau or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-18-
8. 
"Harbin City" means the city of Harbin in Heilongjiang Province or any successor
thereto.
9. 
"Harbin Municipality" means the Municipality of Harbin in Heilongjiang Province, or
any successor thereto.
10. 
"Harbin Project Leading Group" or "Harbin PLG" means the project leading group
established by Harbin Municipality on August 22, 2013 to provide leadership,
coordination and supervision on the preparation and implementation of the Project in
Harbin City, and referred'to in Section IA.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
11. 
"Harbin Project Management Office" or "Harbin PMO" means the project management
office established by Harbin Municipality on August 22, 2013, organized within the
Harbin Municipal Transportation Bureau and under the overall direction of the Harbin
PLG, and responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the Project in Harbin City,
and referred to in Section I.A.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
12. 
"Heilongjiang Province" means the Borrower's province of Heilongjiang or any
successor thereto.
13. 
"Harbin Tram Company" means the state-owned limited liability company established
and operating pursuant to its Charter dated January 12, 1993, and to Business License
No. 230100100002095 dated January 4, 2013, issued by Harbin Industry and Commerce
Administration Bureau, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
14. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenditures directly related to the
Project incurred by the Project Municipalities on account of Project implementation,
management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation, in respect of travel costs,
office rent and supplies, organization of meetings, logistics, communications and
translation services, salaries of temporary employees in the Harbin PMO and Mudanjiang
PMO, but excluding salaries and salary supplements of the Borrower's civil servants.
15. 
"Mudanjiang Bus Company" means the limited liability company established and
operating pursuant to its Charter dated June 16, 2003, and to Business License No..
231000100035233 dated December 30, 2012, issued by Mudanjiang Industry and
Commerce Administration Bureau, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
16. 
"Mudanjiang City" means the city of Mudanjiang in Heilongjiang Province, or aily
successor thereto.
17. 
'"Mudanjiang Municipality" means the Municipality of Mudanjiang in Heilongjiang
Province, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"Mudanjiang Project Leading Group" or "Mudanjiang PLG" means the project leading
group established by Mudanjiang Municipality in December 2012 to provide leadership,
coordination and supervision on the preparation and implementation of the Project in
Mudanjiang City, and referred to in Section I.A.2(c) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
-19-
19. 
"Mudanjiang Project Management Office" or "Mudanjiang PMO" means the project
management office established by Mudanjiang Municipality in December 2012,
organized within the Mudanjiang Development and Reform Commission and under the
overall direction of the Mudanjiang PLG, and responsible for the day-to-day
implementation of the Project.in Mudanjiang City, and referred to in Section I.A.2(d) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 11, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
22. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
23. 
"Project Cities" means, collectively, Harbin City and Mudanjiang City, and a "Project
City" means, individually, either of said Project Cities.
24. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Heilbngliang Province or any successor thereto.
25. 
"Project Municipalities" means, collectively, Harbin Municipality and Mudanjiang
Municipality, and a "Project Municipality" means,. individually, either of said Project
Municipalities.
26. 
"Pro'icial Project Management Office" means the project management office
established by the Project Implementing Entity on January 15, 2013 to provide overall
leadership, policy guidance, and coordination for the Project, chaired by the Director of
Foreign Capital and Overseas Investment in the Heilongjiang Development and Reform
Commission, and comprising senior officers from Heilongjiang Province, and referred to
in Section I.A.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
27. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or the acronym "RAP" means: (a) the Resettlement Action
Plan and Due Diligence Report of Mudanjiang Cold Weather Smart Transportation
System Project, dated October 2013; and (b) all such RAPs to be prepared and adopted
by the Project Implementing Entity and the respective Project Municipality, consistent
with the RPF (as hereinafter defined), for purposes of carrying out the Project, which
plans shall set out, inter alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition
of land required for the Project and related facilities; (ii) actions and measures for the
payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and
rehabilitation; (iii) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions
and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting
-20-
from the implementation of activities in locations that are -not directly identified in the
RAP; and (iv) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said
plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans.
28. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or the acronym "RPF" means the Resettlement Policy
Framework and Due Diligence Report for Harbin Cold Weather. Smart Public
Transportation System Project, dated October 2013, prepared and adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity and Harbin Municipality, acceptable to the Bank; said framework
setting out the policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets,
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the
preparation of Resettlement Action Plans as may be required for Project activities, as said
framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the
Bank; and such. term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said
framework.
29. 
"Results Framework" means the Project Implembnting Entity's framework, dated
February 12, 2014 and agreed with the Bank, setting forth the indicators and targets for
purposes of monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Project, as the same may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes any annexes, appendices, or schedules to such framework.
30. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the EMPs, the RAP (and any supplemental
RAPs that may be prepared under the Project), and the RPF, and such term includes any
annexes or schedules to such instruments.
31. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based
on annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to semmiars,
workshops, and domestic and overseas. study trips, along with travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and repi-oduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
course preparation and implementation.
-21-
