OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8362-RO
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Reform - Improving Health System Quality and Efficiency Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
P- 
201
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
7k 
C 
, 201 
between ROMANIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BAk FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I-GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE 1I-LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and fifty million Euro (E250,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III-PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Health of Romania ("MOH")
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV-TERMINATION
4.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date of one hundred and fifty (150) days after the date
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Public Finance or whomever the
Minister delegates the authority to.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Apolodor Street no 17, quarter 5
Bucharest, Romania
Facsimile: 
4021 312 67 92
402131123 76
-2-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at 
A-& 
, as of the day and year first
above written.
ROMANIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
GC.A
Title: 
&(&cIeL 
-1 
R4'6- 
QLarw 
C,
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
e4L k, 
(fl
Title: 
t;&P-g 0 
A
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
By
thorize 
epresentative
Name: 
CCA"e2 
, 
eL&ourLe-
Title: 
eg"L 
,
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to, and quality and efficiency of, public
health services in Romania.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. HosDital Network Rationalization
Rationalization of the health care service delivery network by supporting the provision of
goods, works, non-consulting services, consultants' services 
and training in selected
regional emergency hospitals, county hospitals, and local hospitals through the following
activities:
(a) 
Improving selected medical services, including surgery rooms, intensive care
units, bum units, radiotherapy units, emergency services (including emergency
telemedicine systems) and diagnosis (medical imaging) services.
(b) 
Redefining the hospital's role in the health care system, merge services and
reduce the number of single specialty hospitals, and move from multi-building
settings into single buildings with integrated diagnostic and interventional
platforms.
(c) 
Carrying out rehabilitation works within the existing medical facilities.
(d) 
Upgrading arid/or acquiring medical and other equipment for existing medical
facilities.
Part B. Ambulatory Care Strengthening
1. 
Strengthening specialized secondary ambulatory care by supporting the provisions of
goods, works, non-consulting services, consultants' services and training through the
following activities:
(a) 
Developing centers for ambulatory diagnostic and treatment services.
(b) 
Transforming local hospitals into centers for ambulatory diagnostic and
treatment.
(c) 
Improving cancer screening networks by, among others, establishing additional
cancer screening centers, creating three (3) mobile units for cancer screening and
strengthening the technical capacity of regional pathology and cytology
laboratories.
-5-
2. 
Enhancing primary health care services at the community level by supporting the
provisions of goods, works, non-consulting services, consultants' services and training,
by scaling up local multifunctional health centers, increasing the provision of
differentiated types of long-term healthcare such as palliative care dedicated to
vulnerable groups.
Part C. Health Sector Governance and Stewardship Improvement
Improving sector governance and stewardship of the MOH and other relevant
governmental institutions to bridge the gap between policy and practice and to strengthen
the capacity of improving the quality of medical care services through the provisions of
goods, non-consulting services, consultants' services and training, through the following
activities.
(a) 
Updating clinical guidelines and implementing quality control mechanisms.
(b) 
Strengthening and implementing health technology assessments (HTA) and
developing evidence-based standards and protocols.
(c) 
Standardizing cost accounting systems in a subset of selected hospitals to update
the estimated costs of each case mix.
(d) 
Strengthening the capacity of the health sector to conduct surveys and studies,
develop and manage projects, and finance feasibility and pre-investment studies,
including feasibility studies and technical designs for new medical facilities in
the regional emergency hospitals of Cluj, lasi and Craiova.
(e) 
Streamlining the national health programs to move the focus toward preventive
care and promotion of population health services.
(f) 
Strengthening the communications strategy of the MoH to inform the general
public on reform programs and expected outcomes.
Part D. Project Management. Monitoring and Evaluation
Supporting the MOH and the Project Management Unit ("PMU") in Project management
and implementation, including fiduciary tasks, monitoring and evaluation and reporting
through the provisions of goods, non-consulting services, consultants' services, training,
auditing and incremental operating costs.
-6-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
Steering Committee. The Borrower, through MOH, shall establish by not later than 3
(three) months following the Effectiveness Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout the
implementation of the Project, a Steering Committee ("SC"), chaired by the Minister of
Health of the Borrower and including high-level representatives of the MoH and any
other relevant stakeholders, with terms of reference, composition and resources
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall, among other functions, be responsible for providing
overall strategic guidance for the Project and ensure coordination among the various
stakeholders of the Project.
2. 
Project Management Unit (PMU). The Borrower, through MOH, shall maintain,
throughout the implementation of the Project, the PMU with terms of reference,
composition and resources satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be responsible, inter alia,
for the: (a) day-to-day financial management of the Project, including audits; (b)
monitoring, evaluation and reporting of Project activities; (c) carrying out of the
procurement under the Project; (d) managing of any Training activity carried out under
the Project in accordance with a semi-annual training plan approved by the Bank; (e)
overall coordination and facilitation of the implementation of the Project; (f) preparation
of annual work programs and semi-annual budget plans of the Project; (g) preparation of
the progress reports for the Project; and (i) following-up on the orientations and
recommendations of the SC.
B. 
Anti-Corruption.
The Borrower, through MOH, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Project Operational Manual.
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MOH, shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate, waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated,
or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof, without the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
D. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower, through MOH, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the EMF and
shall not amend, abrogate or waive the provisions of the EMF without prior written
agreement with the Bank.
-7-
2. 
The Borrower, through MOH, shall: (a) prepare site-specific EMPs, when required, in
accordance with the EMF requirements, and shall disclose such EMPs and carry them out
in a satisfactory manner; (b) ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of
the EMF and respective EMPs are taken in a timely manner; (c) ensure that adequate
resources are made available for the proper implementation of the EMF and EMPs; and
(d) ensure that the Project Reports referred to in Section II of this Schedule will include
adequate information on monitoring the measures defined in the EMF and EMPs.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports.
1. 
The Borrower, through MOH, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOH, shall: (a) on or about thirty (30) months after the Effective
Date, carry out jointly with the Bank, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying
out the Project (the Midterm Review), to cover, amongst other matters, progress made in
meeting the Project's objective; and overall Project performance against Project
performance indicators; and
(b) 
no later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare and submit to the
Bank an action program, acceptable to the Bank, for the further implementation of the
Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement
such action program.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.
1. 
The Borrower, through MOH, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through
MOH, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report not later than
forty (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MOH, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under the
Project. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
-8-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General.
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding as described in paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services.
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d)
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting
firms; (f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.
-9-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EUR) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
250,000,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services for the
Project, including Training
and audits, and Incremental
Operating Costs
TOTAL AMOUNT 
250,000,000
(a) 
The term "Training" means expenses incurred by the MoH in connection with
carrying out training activities and workshops under the Project, including
transport and accommodation costs and per diem for trainees, trainers and
workshop attendees, trainer fees, rental of facilities and equipment, training
materials and related supplies.
(b) 
The term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs
incurred by the PMU on account of Project implementation, comprising:
communication (including postage and internet); salaries for PMU staff (non-
civil servants); contractual 
and temporary 
support staff, translation and
interpretation; procurement related advertising costs; local transportation; fuel;
operating, maintenance and insurance costs for vehicles; rent of office
accommodation; refurbishment and rehabilitation of offices including equipment;
office supplies; maintenance and insurance of office equipment; Project related
-10-
travel 
and per diem 
allowances 
including 
accommodation 
and local
transportation; and banking charges.
(c) 
The term "Goods" includes medical equipment, information technology and
communication equipment, other equipment, medical mobile units, and vehicles.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; and
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed five million euro (65,000,000)
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
twelve months before the date of this Agreement for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 15, 2020.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on March 1, 2032.
-12-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.
4. 
"Environmental 
Management Framework" 
means 
the Environment Management
Framework 
dated February 14, 2014, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth: (a) the
existing environmental regulations and standards of the Borrower relevant to the Project;
(b) institutions of the Borrower at the local and national levels responsible for issuing
permits, 
licenses, 
and 
enforcing compliance 
of environmental 
standards; 
(c)
environmental and waste management mitigation measures; 
(d) monitoring and
institutional measures for the Project; and (e) requirements and procedures for
preparation of site-specific EMPs for the Project.
5. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means a site-specific environmental
management plan to be prepared for specific investment activities under the Project and
in accordance with the requirements of the EMF.
6. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the 
"International 
Bank for 
Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
7. 
"Ministry of Health" or "MoH" means the Borrowers' Ministry of Health or its successor
thereof.
8. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
9. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 17, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
10. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit established within the MOH
pursuant to the Minister of Health's Order No. 1099 dated November 5, 2012 and
Minister of Health Order No. 168 dated February 14, 2014, as described in Part A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and which may during the implementation of the Project be
relocated to a specialized agency of the MOH with the prior agreement of the Bank.
-13-
11. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual dated January 15, 2014
outlining, inter alia, responsibilities, procurement and contracting procedures, and
procedures for preparation of annual Training plans for the implementation of the Project,
and such term includes any schedules to the manual, as described in Section I.C of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"Steering Committee" of "SC" means the Borrower's committee to be established
pursuant to Part A. 1 of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-14-
