OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8376-BR
Loan Agreement
(Modernizing Public Sector Management, Citizen Security and Gender Policies in
Amazonas Development Policy Loan -
Programa de ConsolidaVdo do Equilibrio Fiscal para a Melhoria da PrestaVdo de
ServiVos Piblicos do Estado do Amazonas)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF AMAZONAS
Dated 5 
m"n 3,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Ap wher 23, 2014, entered into between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRJCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and STATE OF
AMAZONAS ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which
are described in Section I A of Schedule I to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the Borrower's
maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii)
appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
WHEREAS (B) The Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the Bank of
the proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in the Section II of Schedule I to this
Agreement and the purposes of supporting the Program) into an account to be designated
by the Borrower, the Borrower's financial capacity will be strengthened by expanding its
fiscal space to finance further public investments in accordance with the Borrower's
budgetary laws.
The Bank and the Borrower therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred sixteen million Dollars
($216,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement. The Borrower's
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's Secretary of Finance.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
-2-
2.8. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on: (i) the Guarantor's macroeconomic
policy framework; (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure 
program, 
sustainable 
debt, 
and 
appropriate 
fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor, as referred to in the Whereas Clause
(A) of this Agreement; and (iii) the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower's
ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt
and/or fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or (ii) reversing the
objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program
including any action specified in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that an
action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower to reverse
any action or policy under the Program, including any action listed in Section I.A
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the
Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor's
macroeconomic policy framework.
(b) 
The Bank is satisfied with the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure 
program, 
sustainable 
debt 
and 
appropriate 
fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's
approval of the Loan which expire on November 23, 2015.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda
Avenida Andr6 Arafijo, No.150
Aleixo
Manaus, Amazonas
CEP: 69060000
Facsimile: +55 92 21211875
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 6 
E L 
eas 
of
the day and year first above written. 
V
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF AMAZONAS
By
Authorized
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower has adopted the NFC-e, to be applied on a: (a) voluntary basis
from July 1, 2013 until December 31, 2014, and (b) mandatory basis from
January 1, 2015, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 33.405, published
in the Official Gazette on April 16, 2013, and the Resolution No. 022/2013
issued by SEFAZ and published in the Official Gazette on July 1, 2013.
2. 
The Borrower has improved its public procurement regulatory framework,
through the establishment of: (i) the Integrated Management System of
Procurement and Contracts (Sistema Integrado de Gestdo de Compras e
Contratos do Estado) which allows to manage public procurement procedures in
an integrated manner, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 34.159,
published in the Official Gazette on November 11, 2013; and (ii) a price
registration modality aimed at recording in a systematic manner prices of goods
and services procured by the Borrower's secretariats, agencies and entities, as
evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 34.162, published in the Official
Gazette on November 11, 2013.
3. 
The Borrower has established an electronic system (Sistema Eletronico de
Gestdo de Contratos) for managing electronically the contracting of services
outsourced by the secretariats, agencies and entities within the Borrower's
Executive Branch (Poder Executivo Estadual), as evidenced by the Borrower's
Decree No. 34.158, published in the Official Gazette on November 11, 2013.
4. 
The Borrower has established a regulatory framework requiring specific budget
allocations for essential recurrent expenditures (including, inter alia, electricity,
telephone, water and sanitation) incurred by the secretariats, agencies and entities
within the Borrower's Executive Branch (Poder Executivo Estadual) and
restricting modifications of said budget allocations during a given budget period,
as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 34.011, published in the Official
Gazette on September 25, 2013.
5. 
The Borrower has integrated the management of its civil and military police
units, through: (i) the creation of AISCs in twelve of the Borrower's
municipalities, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 34.181, published in
the Official Gazette on November 14, 2013; (ii) the establishment of integrated
work routines aimed at coordinating the activities of said police units, as
-6-
evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 34.184, published in the Official
Gazette on November 14, 2013; (iii) the adoption of operational procedures to
integrate the activities of said police units and promote the exchange of
information between them, as evidenced by the Borrower's Ordinances
(Portarias) No. 228/2013 and 25/2014, published in the Official Gazette on
December 16, 2013, and on February 24, 2014, respectively; and (iv) the
establishment of the CISPO, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 34.186,
published in the Official Gazette on November 14, 2013.
6. 
The Borrower has established a performance evaluation system (including, inter
alia, indicators and objectives to be met) in order to monitor and measure the
joint activities of its civil and military police units in the AISCs, as evidenced by
the Borrower's Ordinances (Portarias) No. 23/2014 and 24/2014, both published
in the Official Gazette on February 24, 2014.
7. 
The Borrower has regulated the public disclosure of expenditures and costs of its
civil and military police units, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No.
34.183, published in the Official Gazette on November 14, 2013.
8. 
The Borrower has established the SEPM which aims at adopting policies to
improve women's living conditions in the Borrower's territory, through inter
alia: (i) the coordination of support and protection services for victims of
domestic violence; and (ii) the provision of training and the carrying out of
awareness initiatives to communities regarding gender issues and services for
women as evidenced by the Borrower's Law No. 3873, published in the Official
Gazette on March 20, 2013.
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal
Tranche 
$216,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$216,000,000
-7-
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied:
(a) 
with the adequacy of the Guarantor's macroeconomic policy framework
and the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program;
and
(b) 
with the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate expenditure program,
sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is January 31, 2016. The Bank shall only grant
an extension of the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has
informed the Bank that it agrees with such extension.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
-
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2019
through March 15, 2039 
2.5%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-9-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"AISC" means Integrated Citizen Security Areas (Areas Integradas de
Seguranga Cidada), a model of integrated management of public security jointly
carried out by the Borrower's Civil and Military Police, established pursuant to
the Borrower's Decree No 34.181, published in the Official Gazette on
November 14, 2013.
2. 
"CISPO" means Integrated Commission for the Systematization of Operational
Procedures of the Civil and Military Police of Amazonas (Comissdo Integrada
para Sistematizagdo dos Procedimentos Operacionais das Policias Civil e
Militar do Amazonas), aimed at coordinating the operational procedures of the
Borrower's Civil and Military Police units, established pursuant to the
Borrower's Decree No. 34.186, published in the Official Gazette on November
14, 2013.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"NFC-e" means the electronic fiscal receipt for final consumers (Nota Fiscal
Eletr6nica a Consumidor Final) established and regulated pursuant to the
Borrower's Decree No. 33.405, published in the Official Gazette on April 16,
2013, issued by commercial operators in connection with retail sale transactions.
6. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Didrio Oficial.
-12-
7. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated February 27, 2014, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
8. 
"SEFAZ" means Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda, the Borrower's Finance
Secretariat.
9. 
"SEPM" means Secretaria Executiva de Politicas para Mulheres, the Borrower's
Executive Secretariat for Gender-related Policies.
10. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
-13-
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
-14-
