OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8352-BY
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
S 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8352-BY
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
J9rU ( 
', 
2014, between the
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purposes of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety million United States Dollars
(US$90,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Housing and
Utilities (MHU) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Deputy Prime Minister.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Council of Ministers
House of Government
Minsk, 220010
11 Sovetskaya Street
Republic of Belarus
Facsimile:
375 17 2226665
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Minsk, Republic of Belarus, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
By
Authorized Representative
Nal 
A 
C 
Ve 
V S " 
W-ts
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
:_ 
_ 
__ 
_
Title:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase access to water supply services and to
improve the quality of water supply and wastewater services in selected urban areas in all
six Oblasts of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the Original Project, as amended hereby solely for
purposes of the Loan:
Part A: Rehabilitation of Water Supply and Sanitation Systems
Provision of goods, works and consultants' services for: (a) rehabilitation and
construction of deep wells, pumping stations, transmission mains, distribution network,
ground and elevated reservoirs and iron removal plants, and other water supply facilities;
and (b) rehabilitation and construction of wastewater collection systems and wastewater
treatment plants including upgrade of monitoring stations and laboratories, and other
water sanitation facilities.
Part B: Support to the Preparation of Investments
Provision of goods and consultants' services for, inter alia: (a) (i) preparation of
feasibility studies, preliminary designs and bidding documents; and (ii) carrying out of
bids evaluation; all for activities under Part A of the Project and/or future investments in
the water and wastewater sector; (b) construction management, including supervision,
monitoring and evaluation of physical implementation of activities under Part A of the
Project; and (c) development of benchmarking systems and review of design
norms.
Part C: Capacity Building, Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) 
Provision of goods, consultants' services and training to the Project Coordination
Team (PCT) to assist in the implementation, management and auditing of the
Project.
(b) 
Strengthening social accountability mechanisms on water and wastewater
services through, inter alia, the provision of support to: (i) Selected Water and
Wastewater Service Providers to develop communication plans to improve their
communication with their customers through, inter alia: (A) the development
and/or update of websites; and (B) the enhancement of the information contained
in existing websites and/or information displayed publicly in their premises; and
(ii) strengthen existing grievance redress mechanisms to enhance service
delivery.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the MHU and the PCT, carry the overall
responsibility for implementing the Project in accordance with the Operational
Manual. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the MHU, ensure that all necessary measures are
taken to maintain the PCT during the execution of the Project with such staff and
resources as shall be required for the PCT to perform its duties in respect of the
day-to-day management and implementation of the Project. The Borrower shall,
through the MHU, appoint coordinators to assist the PCT in the implementation
of the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall coordinate with the other relevant entities, including, inter
alia, MoH, MNREP, Oblasts, Selected Water and Wastewater Service Providers
and municipalities participating in the Project, the implementation of the Project
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and defined in the Operational
Manual.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EMP, or any provision
thereof.
-6-
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF); (b) adopt and comply with the procedures detailed in
said RPF for screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the
activities under the Project; and (c) implement the pertinent resettlement action
plan or abbreviated resettlement plan, as the case may be, all in accordance with
their terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Resettlement Policy Framework, or any provision thereof.
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the activities under Part A of the Project in the
municipality of Mogilev in accordance with the Abbreviated Resettlement Plan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Abbreviated Resettlement Plan, or any provision thereof.
4. 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to
finance land acquisition.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Monitoring Indicators. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
-7-
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be: (a) furnished to
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period; and (b) made
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances under which said methods may be used: (a) National
Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in Annex A to
this Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Force Account.
-8-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b)
Selection Under Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection Based on
the Consultant's Qualifications; (e) Single Source Selection; and (f) Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1 .
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
No later than December 31 of every year during the implementation of
the Project, beginning on December 31, 2015, prepare and furnish to the
Bank a procurement progress report (Procurement Report), in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) a
description of issues arising during the full procurement cycle under the
Project, from design through planning, bidding, contract implementation
and completion; (ii) a list of proposed measures and actions to be taken
to resolve the issues identified under (i) above; and (iii) a proposed
timeline for the implementation of the said measures and actions.
(b) 
No later than January 31 of every year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on January 31, 2016, exchange views with the Bank
on the results of the Procurement Progress Report completed for the
Borrower's previous calendar year and thereafter implement such
recommended measures, as agreed with the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
-9-
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works,
consultants' services 
89,775,000 
100%
(including audits) and
Training for the Project
Amount payable pursuant
(2) Front-end Fee 
225,000 
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
90,000,000
3. 
For purposes of the table in paragraph 2 above, the term "Training" means Project
related expenditures (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the PCT
in connection with the carrying out of seminars and workshops, including the
reasonable travel costs (e.g. accommodation, transportation costs and per diem,
inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), catering, rental of training
facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training
materials.
-10-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 20, 2018.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2018 
4.55%
through September 15, 2028
On March 15, 2029 
4.45%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-12-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-13-
ANNEX A
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consulting Services under Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National
Competitive Bidding
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement or the Procurement Guidelines, the procurement procedure to be followed for
National Competitive Bidding shall be the Open Tender procedure set forth in the Public
Procurement Law of the Republic of Belarus (Law No. 419-3 dated 13 July 2012) (the
"PPL"), and subject to the following provisions:
A. 
Eligibility
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Procurement 
Guidelines.
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders. No restrictions in respect of
eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall be placed on the basis of nationality
of the bidder and/or the origin of goods other than those imposed by primary boycotts.
No restriction of any kind shall be applied to foreign bidders who wish to submit a bid.
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered or invited firms, and foreign
bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for
submitting bids.
B. 
Procedures
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Official Gazette or in at least
one widely circulated national daily newspaper or in an electronic portal
of free access allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation
and submission of bids, from the date of publication of the invitation to
bid or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is
later.
(b) 
The sale and/or issuance of bidding documents shall not be restricted
only to entities invited by the procuring entity.
(c) 
Bids shall be submitted as paper documents and subsequent procurement
process (bid opening, bid evaluation, contract finalization) shall be
conducted using conventional paper formats. Borrower will be able to
-14-
use electronic system permitting bidders to submit bids by electronic
means, provided the Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of the system,
including inter alia, that the system is secure, maintains the integrity,
confidentiality, and authenticity of bids submitted, and uses an electronic
signature system or equivalent to keep bidders bound to their bids.
(d) 
Prequalification procedures acceptable to the Bank shall be used for
large, complex and/or specialized contracts.
C. 
Assessment of Bidders' Qualifications
In the procurement of goods and works, where pre-qualification is not used, the
qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed
by 
post-qualification, 
applying 
minimum 
experience, 
technical 
and 
financial
requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and which shall be
determined by a 'pass/fail' method.
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Belarus shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the
Borrower or Sub-Borrower, pursuant to paragraph 1.10 (b) of the Procurement
Guidelines. Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security
requirements as other bidders.
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint
venture partners will be jointly and severally liable under the contract.
F. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, or
Bank's sample National Competitive Bidding documents for Europe and Central Asia
Region for works and goods, and shall draft prequalification documents (where
applicable), contracts and conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank.
G. 
Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms.
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily-
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point
system shall not be used.
-15-
(c) 
An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional circumstances,
may be requested in writing from all bidders before the bid validity
expiration date and shall be allowed once only for the minimum period
required to complete the evaluation or award a contract, but not more
than thirty (30) days. No further extensions shall be requested without
the prior approval of the Bank.
(d) 
Bids containing material deviations from the bidding document
requirements shall be rejected. Non-material documentary deviations or
quantifiable minor deviations may not be the reason for the rejection of
bids.
(e) 
Bids may not be rejected where they differ substantially from the
estimated prices calculated by the procuring entity, except where the bid
prices exceed the available budget.
(f) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid, and no negotiation as to
the price or substance of the bid shall take place.
(g) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding.
(h) 
Bid evaluation shall be confidential and no information shall be disclosed
until the notification of the award.
H. 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e. more than eighteen (18) months) shall
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.
I. 
Rejection of All Bids
All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is received) shall not be rejected, the
procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall not be solicited without
the Bank's prior written concurrence.
J. 
Securities
Performance Securities should not exceed 10% (ten percent) of the contract
price; No advance payments shall be made to the Suppliers/Contractors without a suitable
Advance Payment security. The wording of all such securities shall be included in the
bidding documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank. Bidders shall be given at least
twenty-eight (28) days from the receipt of notification of contract award to submit
Performance Securities, and Bid Securities shall remain valid for such period.
-16-
K. 
Contract Modification and Termination
(a) 
Prior approval of the Bank shall be obtained for any modification in the
contract scope and conditions during the contract implementation.
(b) 
The contracts will include a provision that the Purchaser (or the
Employer) shall have the right to terminate the contract for reasons of
Supplier's or Contractor's default or insolvency or for convenience.
L. 
Fraud and Corruption
Each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption as defined in
paragraph 1.16(a) of the Procurement Guidelines. The Bank will sanction a firm or an
individual, at any time, in accordance with prevailing Bank sanctions procedures,
including by publicly declaring such firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or
for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; and (ii) to be a
nominated sub-contractor, consultant, manufacturer or supplier, or service provider of an
otherwise eligible firm being awarded a Bank-financed contract.
M. 
Audit Rights
In accordance with paragraph 1.16(e) of the Procurement Guidelines, each
bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide
that: (i) the bidders, suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and
performance of the contract, and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank; and (ii) the deliberate and material violation by the bidder,
supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such provision may amount to an obstructive
practice as defined in paragraph 1.16(a) (v) of the Procurement Guidelines.
-17-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Abbreviated Resettlement Plan" means the Borrower's plan published on
November 19, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, detailing resettlement assistance,
measures (including compensation) and procedures for the activities under Part A
of the Project to be carried out in the municipality of Mogilev.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by EBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank operational 
policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under Ops/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.36, 4.09, 4.11, 4.10, 4.12, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published
under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under EBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
6. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the Borrower's plan
adopted by the MHU dated February 3, 2014 satisfactory to the Bank,
describing: 
(a) environmental 
monitoring and mitigation measures
(including procedures to follow in case of unexpected findings of physical
resources with possible cultural, archeological, paleontological, historical,
religious, aesthetic, or other cultural value) to eliminate or offset adverse
environmental impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions
needed to implement these measures.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
8. 
"MNREP" 
means the Borrower's 
Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection or any successor or successors thereto.
9. 
"MoH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health or any successor or successors
thereto.
10. 
"MHU" means the Borrower's Ministry of Housing and Utilities or any
successor or successors thereto.
-18-
11. 
"Oblasts" means the following Oblasts within the Borrower's territory: Brest,
Gomel, Grodno, Minsk, Mogilev and Vitebsk.
12. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated February 3, 2014 adopted by the
MHU, referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, describing
the procedures for the Project implementation including, inter alia: (i) procedures
governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management,
monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (ii) the Performance Monitoring
Indicators; (iii) the EMP; (iv) the RPF; and (v) the Abbreviated Resettlement
Plan; as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
13. 
"Original Project" means the project set forth in Schedule 1 of the Original Loan
Agreement.
14. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the
Republic of Belarus and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development, dated October 21, 2008, as amended in May 31, 2013.
15. 
"Performance Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project, referred to in Section II.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be amended from time
to time with the prior consent of the Bank.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 3, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Project Coordinating Team" or "PCT" means the Borrower's national industrial
investment company "Belkomtekhinvest" established pursuant to Presidential
Decree 417, dated August 12, 2008 and subordinated to the MHU, which is
responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the Project.
19. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (A) standard of living
adversely affected; or (B) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (C) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (D) business,
-19-
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
20. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrowers framework
dated May 
18, 
2012 and acceptable 
to the Bank, outlining general
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for preparation and
implementation of resettlement plans, when applicable, as said framework may
be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
21. 
"Selected Water and Wastewater Service Providers" means any water utility
(vodokanal) and communal services utilities responsible for the provision of
water and wastewater services in the Borrower's territory, selected in accordance
with the criteria and procedures defined in the Operational Manual.
-20-
