OfFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8274-AZ
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Integrated Solid Waste Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated ea4tt7 
1'Z, 
2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8274-AZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
f 
7C 
, 2014, between the
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty seven million and one hundred
thousand United States Dollars (US$47,100,000), 
as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PMT in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Operational Manual.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Operational 
Manual 
has been amended, 
suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project.
(b) 
Presidential Decree approving the Charter of the Ministry of Economy
and Industry of the Borrower, has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
83 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku AZ1022
Republic of Azerbaijan
Telex:
142116 BNKSL
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
By:_ 
_ 
_ 
__
Author ed Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support: (i) improving solid waste disposal
management; (ii) increasing waste collection coverage; and (iii) enhancing waste data
information and financial management capacity in the Greater Baku area.
The Project consists of the Original Project with the following modifications:
Component A: Institutional Reform, Capacity Building and Project Management
1. 
Finalization of a strategic plan for the sector, which includes: (a) analytical work
to assess the existing systems, institutional reform, sector financing, funding and cash
flow management; (b) development of legal framework and institutional structure; (c)
development of roll-out plans for waste collection services and involvement of private
sector; (d) tariff and tariff collection reforms; (e) development of accounting and data
systems; and (f) strategy for dealing with municipal and nonhazardous waste, planning
for rehabilitation of disposal sites and closure of informal dumps.
2. 
Provision of capacity building and management support programs for practical
management and operational skills in solid waste collection and disposal.
3. 
Provision of goods and consultants' services for public awareness campaigns and
communication program.
4. 
Strengthening of the management capacity of the PMT to monitor and administer
implementation of the Project.
Component B: Balakhani Landfill Rehabilitation and Management
Improvement of the capacity of an existing landfill for continuation of disposal
activities 
in an operationally and environmentally sound manner through the
rehabilitation of the Balakhani landfill site, including: (i) full remediation and closure of
the old waste disposal parts of the site; (ii) installation of water and leachate controls; (iii)
opening of new waste cells at the existing site; and (iv) introduction of a methane gas
capture system.
Component C: Closure and Management of Informal Dumps
Closure and cleanup of informal dumps through removal and the transportation
of waste from wild dumps, as well as the improvement of management of formal sites, in
order to minimize the negative environmental effects associated with informal or non-
sanitary waste disposal.
-7-
Component D: Urgent Collection Equipment
Provision of goods in order to increase the service quality and availability of
solid waste collection coverage and service efficiency.
Component E: Technical Preparation of Post-Project Investments
1. 
Preparation of feasibility studies and environmental impact assessments needed
to develop new landfill capacity and introduce transfer stations to maintain an effective
enhanced waste collection and disposal system including for waste management systems
and regional landfills outside the Greater Baku area.
2. 
Preparation of a national waste management strategy and implementation roll-out
plan.
3. 
Preparation of a national legal framework to improve solid waste management.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Economy and Industry of the
Borrower, maintain, throughout Project implementation, the PMT headed by a
project manager and with staff, resources and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the
ESIA, EMF, EMP and RPF shall be taken in a timely manner. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the ESIA, EMF, EMP and/or RPF.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the RAPs: (a) shall be prepared in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the RPF prior to commencement of
any activities for the areas where physical relocation, land acquisition and/or loss
of income due to the Project activities have been identified, and; (b) shall be
carried out in a timely manner, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
-9-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
- 10-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions:
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder;
(ii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and
financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law;
(iii) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of
products or labor;
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations;
(v) 
no "participation fee" shall be required of bidders for the purchase of
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of
producing (copying) the bidding documents;
(vi) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring
entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available budget;
(vii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank;
(viii) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months' duration shall
include appropriate price adjustment provisions;
(ix) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the
contract scope and conditions during implementation; and
(x) 
standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used.
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
- 11 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 12 -
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of VAT)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
46,982,250 
100%
consulting services,
and consultants'
services, Training and
Incremental Operating
Costs for the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
117,750 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
47,100,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2016.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall ensure that a
technical design has been approved by the Bank prior to the commencement of
any activities involving works for each specific site under Component B of the
Project.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 November 2018 
2.10%
15 May 2019 
2.16%
15 November 2019 
2.23%
15 May 2020 
2.29%
15 November 2020 
2.36%
15 May 2021 
2.43%
15 November 2021 
2.51%
15 May 2022 
2.58%
15 November 2022 
2.66%
15 May 2023 
2.74%
15 November 2023 
2.82%
15 May 2024 
2.91%
15 November 2024 
2.99%
15 May 2025 
3.08%
15 November 2025 
3.18%
15 May 2026 
3.27%
15 November 2026 
3.37%
15 May 2027 
3.47%
15 November 2027 
3.57%
15 May 2028 
3.68%
15 November 2028 
3.79%
15 May 2029 
3.91%
15 November 2029 
4.02%
15 May 2030 
4.14%
15 November 2030 
4.27%
15 May 2031 
4.40%
- 14 -
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 November 2031 
4.53%
15 May 2032 
4.66%
15 November 2032 
4.80%
15 May 2033 
5.08%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
- 15 -
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. 
"EMF" means the Borrower's Environmental Management Framework, dated
February 22, 2008, setting forth the framework of environmental management to
be carried out under Part C of the Project in order to mitigate any adverse impact
to the environment.
5. 
"EMP" means the Borrower's Environmental Management Plan, dated February
20, 2008, setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse impact to the
environment for Part B of the Project.
6. 
"ESIA" means the Borrower's Environmental and Social Impact Assessment on
the closure and rehabilitation of Balakhani landfill and construction of the new
landfill cells within the Balakhani landfill, dated August 9, 2012.
7. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means incremental operating and maintenance
costs incurred by the Borrower on account of management of Project
implementation for communications, utilities including electricity, bank charges,
printing and publications, office rent maintenance, repair and supplies, office
security systems, vehicle operation, fuel and maintenance, eligible social charges,
transportation and field trip expenses, insurance for office equipment and vehicle,
salaries of the Borrower's staff employed for the purpose of the Project,
excluding those who are civil servants, all for the purpose of Project
management, as such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
9. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement for the Absheron
Rehabilitation Program II: Integrated Solid Waste Management Project between
the Bank and the Republic of Azerbaijan dated, May 20, 2009 (Loan No. 7549-
AZ).
- 17-
10. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
11. 
"PMT" means the Project Management Team within the Ministry of Economy
and Industry of the Borrower, established through the Ministerial Decree No.
121, dated April 16, 2008, or any successor thereto, responsible for the day-to-
day management and monitoring of the Project.
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 29, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the implementation manual referred to in
Section 4.01 
(a) of this Agreement, setting forth the operational 
and
administrative procedures for the implementation of the Project and including all
environmental and social safeguard frameworks, implementation schedule and
key terms of reference, as well as the Procurement Plan.
15. 
"RAP" means the Resettlement Action Plan prepared by the Borrower as
implementing recommendation of the RPF (as hereinafter defined) under the
Project.
16. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated February 2013 and
disclosed in the InfoShop on March 12, 2013, defining the modalities for land
acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons under Parts B
and C of the Project.
17. 
"Training" means expenses incurred by the Borrower in connection with carrying
out training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per diem for
local trainees and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of facilities and
equipment and training materials and related supplies.
18. 
"VAT" means the value-added tax, levied in accordance with the legislation of
the Borrower.
