OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8318-IN
Loan Agreement
(Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor 2 Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEDICATED FREIGHT CORRIDOR CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Dated11e..es. 
\ j. 
2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8318-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
a , 2014, between DEDICATED FREIGHT
CORRIDOR 
CORPORATION 
OF 
INDIA 
LIMITED 
("Borrower") 
and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion one hundred million
Dollars (USDI,100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a Front-end Fee in an amount of two
hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($250,000).
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
-2-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower's Legal Framework has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, voided, repealed or waived, whether in whole or in part, so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement; or
(b) 
the Concession Agreement and/or the Track Access Agreement has/have
been suspended, abrogated, voided, repealed, waived or materially and
adversely amended whether in whole or in part, in a manner that would
affect the Project development objectives, without the prior written
concurrenbe of the Bank.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Managing Director.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd.
5"' Floor, Pragati Maidan Building Complex
Pragati Maidan
New Delhi, I10 00India
Facsimile:
+91 (11) 2345-4701
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
-3-
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
-3.j 'D 
.
, India, as of the day and year first above written.
DEDICATED FREIGHT CORRIDOR
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
By
Name: 
4.al. 
r 
.
Title: 
s
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
OK.o 11AI
Title:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide additional rail transport capacity,
improved service quality and higher freight throughput on the 393 km Kanpur to Mughal
Sarai section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor; and (ii) develop the institutional
capacity of DFCCIL to build, maintain and operate the entire dedicated freight corridor
network.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Design, Construction and Commissioning of the Kanpur-Mughal-Sarai Rail
Corridor
Design, construction and commissioning of the Kanpur-Mughal Sarai section of
the Eastern DFC, consisting of 393 km of double-track electrified railway
designed for freight train operations with 25-ton axle loads (upgradable to 32.5-
ton axle load) at 1O km/h.
Part 2: Institutional Development
Continuing the provision of institutional support to assist DFCCIL to develop its
capability to best utilize heavy-haul freight rail systems.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project,
suitably qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to carry out the
functions of procurement, contract management, financial management,
social and environmental management, and general Project oversight,
monitoring and reporting;
(b) 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a social
and environmental management unit with staff at headquarters and in
field offices, with functions, powers, staff and resources necessary and
appropriate for: (i) implementing social and environmental safeguards
measures required under the RPF, the SIA, the RAP, the EMF, the EA
and the EMP; and (ii) in the event of any major alteration in alignment
under the Project, prior to issuance of the request for proposals under the
altered alignment, ensuring that the EMP and the RAP for such altered
stretch/alignment shall be updated based on the provisions of the EMF
and RPF respectively, and approved by the Bank, and that necessary and
required social and environmental clearances are obtained from India's
relevant authorities;
(c) 
engage by no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain throughout the duration of construction activities: (i)
a quality and safety audit consultant ("QSAC"); and (ii) a social and
environmental 
safeguards 
monitoring 
and 
review 
consultant
("SESMRC"), all with qualifications and experience, and under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, in order to prepare and submit to the
Borrower 
and the 
Bank quarterly 
monitoring 
reports 
on the
implementation of civil work and compliance with the Safeguard
Documents throughout the duration of construction activities under the
Project; and
(d) 
engage by no later than three (3) months as of the award for the first civil
works contract for the Project, and thereafter maintain throughout the
period of implementation of the Project, a project management
consultant ("PMC") with qualifications and experience, and under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank, in order to assist the Borrower with
-6-
contract management functions for the design-build contracts, and the
general implementation of the Project.
B. 
Project Documents
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
implement the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation
Manual, the Concession Agreement, the Track Access Agreement, the
Safeguard Documents and the GAAP, provided however, that in the
event of conflict between the provisions of said manual, agreements,
documents and/or plans, on the one hand, and those of this Agreement,
on the other hand, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; and
(b) 
refrain from suspending, voiding, waiving or materially and adversely
amending any provision of the Project Implementation Manual, the
Concession Agreement, the Track Access Agreement, the Safeguard
Documents and/or the GAAP, whether in whole or in part, in a manner
that would affect the Project development objectives, without the prior
written cdncurrence of the Bank.
2. 
In furtherance of the provision of paragraph 1(a) above, the Borrower shall
submit to the Bank, by no later than June 30 of each year, starting on June 30,
2014, an annual progress report on the implementation of the GAAP, and
thereafter, shall implement the GAAP taking into account the comments and
suggestions made by the Bank on account of such progress reports.
C. 
Signaling and Telecommunications Systems
Prior to the award for any contract for the installation of electrical, signaling and
telecommunications systems for the Kanpur-Mughal Sarai stretch of the Eastern
DFC, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
agree with the respective contractor(s) carrying out the construction of
the railway track, a partial/phased plan for such installation in order to
enable the contractors to complete their work in accordance with the
agreed work program; and;
(b) 
agree with the respective and relevant authorities, and/or utilities, on a
system interconnection and relocation plan to enable contractor to
complete their work.
-7-
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Track Access Agreement
Prior to commencement of commercial operations of the Project section of the
Eastern DFC financed by the Loan, the Borrower shall ensure that a track access
regime agreed with the Bank is in place and operational.
F. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance/compliance with the Management
Framework ("EMF"), the Resettlement Policy Framework ("RPF"), the
Environmental Assessment ("EA"), the Social Impact Assessment
("SIA"), the Environmental Management Plan ("EMP") and the
Resettlement Action Plan ("RAP") (the EMF, RPF, EA, SIA, EMP and
RAP collectively referred to as the "Safeguard Documents"), and
pursuant 
to the objectives, policies, procedures, 
time schedules,
compensation arrangements and other provisions set forth therein, in a
manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of any of the Safeguard Documents, including any
amendment, suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of any
of the Safeguard Documents, whether in whole or in part, without the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.
2. 
In the event of any conflict between a provision of any of the Safeguard
Documents, on the one hand, and those of this Agreement, on the other hand, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to commencing any civil works under the
Project:
(a) 
all necessary governmental permits and clearances for such civil works
in the respective stretch of railway track shall have been obtained from
the competent governmental authority/ies and submitted to the Bank;
(b) 
all 
pre-construction 
conditions 
imposed 
by 
the 
governmental
authority/ies under such permit(s) or clearance(s) shall have been
complied with/fulfilled; and
-8-
(c) 
the respective section or stretch of railway track shall be encumbrance
free, and all resettlement measures set forth in the RAP shall have been
fully executed, including the full payment of compensation prior to
displacement and/or the provision of relocation assistance to all
Displaced Persons, as per the entitlements provided in the RPF and/or the
RAP.
In the event of any major alteration in the alignment of the Project as defined in
the Project Implementation Manual, the Borrower shall, prior to the issuance of
the request for proposal under the altered alignment, ensure that the respective
EMP and the RAP are updated pursuant to the provisions of the EMF and the
RPF and approved by the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each contract for civil works under the Project
includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant
Safeguard Documents applicable to such civil works commissioned/awarded
pursuant to said contract.
5. 
The Borrower shall: (a) by no later than December 31 of each year, commencing
on December 31, 2014, undertake annual reviews and prepare reports on the
results obtained and experiences gained in the implementation of the RPF and the
RAP; (b) promptly submit such report (within sixty (60) days of completion) to
the Bank for review and comments; and (c) thereafter implement any
recommendations and/or update, as required, the RPF and the RAP.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the Loan are neither utilized to
finance: (a) any land acquisition; nor (b) any compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation payment to Displaced Persons as per the RAP.
G. 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a two stage grievance redressal committee at district level and
headquarters, and an ombudsman to handle/process any complaints arising out of
the implementation of the RPF and the RAP, which institutions shall be granted
the powers, functions, capacities and resources appropriate to fulfill their
functions.
Section II. 
Project Monitorine Reportini and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
-9-
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
2. 
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph I above, the Borrower shall,
within thirty (30) months of the Effective Date of this Agreement: (a) carry out a
comprehensive mid-term review assessment of the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project; and (b) prepare and furnish to the Bank the
conclusions thereof in a mid-term review report in a manner and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than one (1) year after commissioning the
facilities financed under the Project, provide to the Bank a final impact study of
the Project, conducted under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall provide to the Bank no later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date, the report referred to in Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each such audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section HII. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
-10-
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions agreed from time to time, between
the Borrower and the Bank and set forth in the Procurement Plan; (b) Shopping;
and (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c)
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
- 11 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The followiig table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 12 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works,
consultants' services, non-
consulting services and 
1,093,750,000 
80%
Training for Part 1 of the
Project
(2) Goods, consultants'
services, non-consulting
services, and Training for
Part 2 of the Project
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1,100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USDI00,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
January 1, 2014, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2021
through May 15, 2035 
3.33%
On November 15, 2035 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 14-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denOmination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Borrower's Legal Framework" means DFCCIL's Memorandum and Articles of
Association, dated October 23, 2006, and/or India's Companies Act (2013), as
the same shall have been amended to the date of this Agreement.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Concession Agreement" means the agreement entered into by and between
MOR and DFCCIL on February 28, 2014, awarding DFCCIL the concession of
the freight corridor (to be) built under the Project; setting the objectives of that
concession and the rights and obligations of the parties in achieving those
objectives; and ensuring DFCCIL efficient and effective construction, operation
and maintenance of the freight corridor.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
6. 
"Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited" and the acronym
"DFCCIL" mean the Schedule A Central Public Sector Enterprise, fully owned
by MOR, and incorporated under the India's Companies Act (1956).
7. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons.
8. 
"Eastern DFC" means the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor intended to
connect the Borrower's cities of Ludhiana and Kolkata, granted in concession to
DFCCIL pursuant to the Concession Agreement.
-16-
9. 
"EDFC- l" means the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor Project financed by the
Bank pursuant to the Loan Agreement No. 8066-IN, entered into between India
and the Bank on October 27, 2011.
10. 
"Environmental Assessment" and the acronym "EA" mean the Borrower's
environmental impact assessment disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on January 7,
2013, determining the likely positive and negative environmental impacts of
Project activities; as the same may be revised, updated or supplemented from
time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
11. 
"Environmental Management Framework" and the acronym "EMF" mean the
Guarantor's and Borrower's framework, disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on
January 28, 2011, setting forth the guiding principles, acceptable standard and
procedures for: (a) the screening of Project activities, and/or Linked Activities,
and the identification of any adverse or positive environmental impacts caused,
or expected to be caused, on account of their implementation; and, if needed, (b)
the preparation of their prescribed environmental impact assessments, and
environmental management plans therefor; as such framework may be revised,
updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.
12. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" and the acronym 
"EMP" mean 
the
Borrower's environmental plan, jointly disclosed with the EA at the Bank's
Infoshop on January 7, 2013, setting forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring
and institutional measures, including capacity building through training, required
to: (i) eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be
implemented under the Project; (ii) offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels; and/or (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof; as such plans may be
revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
14. 
"GAAP" means the Borrower's governance and accountability action plan dated
April 11, 2011, for purposes of the Project, which sets out the key actions to be
undertaken by the Borrower to strengthen governance, transparency and
accountability under the Project; as such action plan may be revised, updated or
supplemented, from time to time, with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
15. 
"Linked Activities" means the over-bridges and under-passes crossing the
Eastern DFC, as well as any other ancillary infrastructure and activities that are:
(a) significantly or directly related to the Project; (b) necessary to achieve the
project development objectives; and (c) carried out or planned to be carried out
contemporaneously with the Project.
-17-
16. 
"MOR" means the Ministry of Railways of the Government of India.
17. 
"PMC" means the Project management consultant referred to in Section I.A.1(d)
of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
18. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated September 23, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
20. 
"Project Implementation 
Manual" means the Borrower's manual, dated
September 25, 2013, which sets forth the procedures for Project implementation,
including, provisions related to financial management, procurement, contract
management, social and environmental safeguards, governance and monitoring
and evaluation; as such manual may be revised from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.
21. 
"QSAC" means the quality and safety audit consultant referred to in Section
I.A.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and the acronym "RAP" mean the Borrower's
resettlement plan, disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on January 3, 2013, which: (i)
identifies the Displaced Persons on account of Project implementation; (ii) sets
forth the terms and conditions for providing them with resettlement assistance
and/or compensation, as well as the Displaced Persons' entitlement schedule; (iii)
details the 
protocols for 
stakeholder 
consultation, 
grievance 
redressal
mechanisms, and monitoring and reporting requirements; and (iv) prescribes the
procedures of the assessment, identification of Displaced Persons, and mitigation
of related social impacts arising from the carrying out of any Linked Activities;
as such plan may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time, with
the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and the acronym "RPF" mean the Guarantor's
and Borrower's framework, disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on January 28,
2011, setting forth the guiding principles, acceptable standards and procedures
for: (a) the screening of Project activities, and/or Linked Activities, and the
identification of any Displaced Persons on account of their implementation; and
(b) the preparation of their prescribed resettlement action plans; as such
framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.
- 18-
24. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the EMF, the EA, the EMP, the
RPF, the SIA and the RAP.
25. 
"SESMRC" means the social and environmental safeguards monitoring and
review consultant referred to in Section I.A.I(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"Social Impact Assessment" and the acronym "SIA" mean, the Borrower's social
impact assessment disclosed at DFCCIL's website on January 2012, determining
the likely social impact of Project activities; as such assessments may be revised,
updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.
27. 
"Track Access Agreement" means the agreements referred to in Section I.E of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be entered into by and between MOR 
and
DFCCIL, as per the Concession Agreement, prior to the commissioning of the
Eastern DFC facilities, setting forth the terms and conditions for access,
utilization of the tracks of the freight corridor awarded in concession to DFCCIL,
payments therefor, and DFCCIL's service performance standards.
28. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of trainings, seminars, workshops,
conferences and study tours, conducted in India and/or overseas, including: (a)
the fees of training institutions and courses; (b) domestic and international travel
costs, lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem allowances both for trainers and
trainees; (c) the rental of training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or
reproduction of training materials.
- 19-
