OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTSi
LOAN NUMBER 8366-MD
Loan Agreement
(First Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
f7 
3 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8366-MD
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
/ 
Z 
5 
, 2014, entered into between the
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I.A of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nine million United States Dollars,
(US$9,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%). The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.8. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly fumish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
-2-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework; and
(b) 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it, (other than the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is Minister of Finance.
-3-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonautilor Street, 7
2005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: lurie Leanca
Title: Prime Minister
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Qimiao Fan
Title: Country Director
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar A: Strengthen the regulatory framework to improve predictability of the
business 
environment, facilitate 
competition, 
and reduce 
regulatory
compliance costs
1. 
The Borrower has established the framework Risk-Based Inspections (RBI)
Methodology pursuant to Decision No. 694 on Approving the General
Framework of the Methodology on Planning of State Control Based on Risk
Criteria, dated September 5, 2013 and published in the Official Gazette No. 198-
204 on September 13, 2013.
2. 
The Borrower has established a Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) to accompany
the customs- and tax-related legislation and regulations that affect companies
through the adoption of Law No. 324 on Amending and Supplementing Some
Legislative Acts, dated December 23, 2013 and published in Official Gazette
No.320-321 on December 31, 2013.
3. 
The Borrower has issued enabling regulations for the implementation of the
Borrower's Law No. 183 dated July 11, 2012 on Competition, and Law No. 139
dated June 15, 2012 on State Aid and adopted a Parliamentary Decision.
4. 
The Borrower has reduced the testing and registration period for seeds and
seedlings to: (i) one (1) year for all annual crops listed in the European Union
Catalogue; and (ii) one (1) harvest year for multiannual (fruit trees) crops listed
in the European Union Catalogue, through the adoption of Government Decision
No. 964 on Supplementing Paragraph 29 of the Regulation on Testing and
Acceptance of Varieties in the Catalogue of Plant Varieties, dated December 4,
2013 and published in the Official Gazette No. 284-289 on December 6, 2013.
Pillar B: Strengthen financial sector stability, promote transparency of
shareholding and ease conditions for access to finance
5. 
The Borrower has adopted a draft Law on Amendments to the Law No. 171 on
Capital Markets, pursuant to Government Decision No. 1028, dated December
19, 2013 and published in Official Gazette No. 312-314/1172 on December 31,
2013; and submitted it to the Parliament on December 24, 2013.
-5-
6. 
The Borrower has clarified the legal framework for contesting the acts of the
Central Bank through the adoption of Law No. 343 on Amending and
Supplementing Some Legislative Acts dated December 24, 2013 published in the
Official Gazette No. 17-23/54 on January 24, 2014.
7. 
The National Bank of Moldova (NBM) has instructed an independent diagnostic
audit of Banca de Economii din Moldova pursuant to Resolution No. 16-003/154-
3602, dated December 9, 2013; and an auditor has been selected competitively to
carry out said audit in compliance with terms of reference agreed with the NBM.
Pillar C. Improve the public investment, management framework, make
investment subsidies in agriculture more efficient and equitable and improve
the coverage of well-targeted social assistance programs
8. 
The Borrower has established transparent and efficient mechanisms for planning,
implementing and monitoring public investment projects through the adoption of
the Regulation on Public Capital Investments pursuant to Government Decision
No. 1029 dated December 19, 2013 and published in Official Gazette No.
311/1157 on December 27, 2013.
9. 
The Borrower has adjusted the parameters of the Aiutor Social benefit program
(by increasing the Guaranteed Minimum Income to Moldovan Lei 680) and the
Heating Allowance benefit program (by increasing the benefit amount to
Moldovan Lei 250) through the adoption of: (i) Government Decision No. 793 on
Amending and Supplementing Government Decision No. 1167 of 16 October
2008. dated October 8. 2013 and published in the Official Gazette No 222-227 on
October 11, 2013; and (ii) Law No. 277 on Amending Law No. 249 of November
2, 2012 on State Budget for 2013, dated November 15, 2013 and published in
Official Gazette No 281-283 on November 30, 2013).
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in USD)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
9,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
9.0000
-6-
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried
out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is October 31, 2014.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July15
Beginning July 15, 2019 
2.00%
through January 15, 2044
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-8-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
-10-
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
Association in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time. "Financing Agreement"
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing
Agreement.
3. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
4. 
"Parliamentary Decision" means the Borrower's Parliament Decision No. 278 on
Approval of the Number of Staff Units and Classification Scheme of the
Competition Council, dated November 21, 2013 and published in the Official
Gazette No.276-280 on November 29, 2013.
5. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated February 14, 2014, from the Borrower to the Bank,
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
6. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
-11-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
-12-
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put
in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures
excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' 
means the program referred to in the Loan
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made."
-13-
