OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8338-YF
Loan Agreement
(Second Serbia Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 6A 
40 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated JLA i A0 
, 2014, between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty nine million one hundred
thousand Euros (EUR 29,100,000), as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February I and August 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Borrower's Ministry of
Health in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Coordination Unit shall be established, within the
Borrower's Ministry of Health, with terms of reference, resources and
staff satisfactory to the Bank, including a project coordinator, a financial
management specialist a procurement specialist, and an environmental
specialist.
-3-
(b) 
The Project Operations and Grants Manual, in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank, shall be adopted by the Borrower through the
Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Fund.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date hundred and eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
For the purposes of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions, the Borrower's
Representative who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions of
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, through exchange of letters (unless
otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia
Facsimile:
(381-11) 3618-961
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at t 
r 
J 
as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: LAIA 
2ti.
Title: t1AicQ0- 
F C-tqt(,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A thorized Representative
Name: 6-JIbAAQJ 
LA
Title: 
_______
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to improving the efficiency and
quality of the public health system of the Republic of Serbia through the strengthening of:
(i) health financing, purchasing, and maintenance systems; and (ii) quality improvement
systems and management of selected priority non-communicable diseases.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improvement of Health Financing
(a) 
Support Hospital Financing Reforms
Strengthen transparency of and incentives for efficiency of the Health Insurance
Fund financing for public hospitals through (i) carrying out a phased implementation of a
DRG payment system, including conducting a DRG costing exercise and building
awareness and capacity of public hospitals' staff for the implementation of said payment
system; (ii) carrying out a gradual shift of hospital acute care financing from inputs to
DRGs; (iii) improving the information systems, through upgrades to central systems, and
software installation or upgrades, as the case may be, at selected hospitals; (iv)
supporting amendments to regulations and by-laws that give effect to the hospital
financing reforms; and (v) providing technical advice on options to improve efficiency of
financing for non-acute care in hospitals and governance arrangements to strengthen
management in hospitals.
(b) 
Strengthen Primary Health Care Financing
Improve the efficiency and quality of preventive and certain other primary care
services through: (i) strengthening the incentives for performance in the Health Insurance
Fund health provider payment mechanisms through refinement of performance criteria
for variable payments made to health workers; (ii) designing and piloting implementation
of Quality Improvement Sub-grants for improvement of quality of health care, including
increased access to health care and preventive services by vulnerable groups (such as
Roma, the elderly, and the disabled); (iii) strengthening implementation and monitoring
capacity of primary health care financing reforms through development of transition
plans for capitation financing to Primary Health Care Centers and development of
managerial capacity and skills for Primary Health Care Centers; and (iv) develop
proposals for amendments to regulations and by-laws that give effect to the primary care
financing reform.
-6-
Part 2. Efficient Purchasing of Pharmaceutical and Medical Products
(a) 
Establish a Centralized Procurement System
Develop and implement 
a centralized 
system for the procurement 
of
pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, diagnostic reagents and medical equipment through:
(i) carrying out a competitive tendering process for multi-source items and reference
pricing for single-source items: (ii) developing specific framework agreements to be
entered by the Health Insurance Fund and suppliers within the centralized procurement
system; (iii) carrying out pilot testing of: (A) e-prescription system and modules for
Primary Health Care Centers, hospitals, Health Insurance Fund, and pharmacies; (B) e-
procurement system to support centralized procurement; and (C) development and
training of a unified information technology system for monitoring in-market availability
and dispensing of pharmaceuticals; and (iv) developing proposals for amendments to
regulations and by-laws that give effect to health sector procurement reform.
(b) 
Strengthen Health Technology Assessment Capacity
Strengthen the Borrower's capacity to carry out improved Health Technology
Assessment through (i) developing partnerships with relevant regional and international
Health Technology Assessment organizations; (ii) strengthening the capacity of the
relevant institutions of the Borrower, selected pursuant to the criteria set forth in the
Project Operations and Grants Manual, to carry out improved Health Technology
Assessment for pharmaceuticals and medical devices; (iii) developing proposals for
strengthened institutional arrangements of the Borrower, including through amendments
to regulations and by-laws for improved Health Technology Assessment; and (iv)
supporting the establishment of a Health Technology Assessment unit within an entity of
the Borrower to be selected by the Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank, based
upon the institutional arrangements developed under the preceding sub-section (iii).
(c) 
Improve Medical Equipment Maintenance Systems
Support the improvement of the Ministry of Health maintenance system through
(i) carrying out a preliminary assessment of the existing (A) system of distribution of
medical equipment; (B) procedures for medical equipment maintenance and repair
management; (C) cost and allocation of maintenance funds; and (D) procurement of spare
parts and equipment maintenance and repair services; (ii) on the basis of the outcome of
the preliminary assessment in (i) above, supporting the establishment of a governmental
agency for medical technology management; and (iii) selecting a qualified Independent
Service Organization for the provision of highly qualified multi-vendor maintenance
services on a pilot basis to selected hospitals.
-7-
Part 3. Strengthen Quality of Service Delivery
(a) 
Strengthen Quality Improvement Systems
Support the Ministry of Health to: (i) develop national clinical practice guidelines
aligned with international standards; (ii) based on the national clinical practice guidelines
referred in (i), develop clinical pathways covering priority disease areas and carry out a
phased implementation of said clinical pathways in selected hospitals and Primary Health
Care Centers; (iii) provide targeted support, with the support of National Agency for
Accreditation of Health Care Institutions, to selected Primary Health Care Centers for the
improvement of quality of provision of health care for priority services, through the
provision of training and technical assistance; (iv) support the improvement of reporting
and use of information on service quality and efficiency at the Ministry of Health, Health
Insurance Fund, Institute of Public Health, and Regional Institutes of Public Health, (v)
implement a Health Management Information System, and strengthen the national e-
health development framework; and (vi) develop proposals for amendments to
regulations and by-laws that give effect to the quality of service delivery reforms.
(b) 
Improve Cancer Management
Increase the coverage and quality of radiation therapy cancer treatment at
specialized tertiary oncology centers, selected pursuant to criteria set forth in the POGM,
through: (i) procurement and installation of a number of accelerators determined pursuant
to criteria set forth in the POGM, and associated equipment and works; and (ii)
supporting the improvement of monitoring of patient outcomes and the strengthening of
the national cancer registry system, through training, information systems, and technical
assistance.
Part 4. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Project Management
Carry out Project management, monitoring and evaluation activities, audits, and
financing of Operating Costs, studies, and Training.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall assign day to day implementation and management of the
Project to its Ministry of Health, through the PCU.
2. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall maintain, throughout Project
implementation, the PCU with terms of reference, staff and resources satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The PCU shall be responsible for organizing quarterly Project review meetings to
be called by the Ministry of Health, and attended by relevant officials of the
Ministry of Health, Institute of Public Health, Regional Institutes of Public
Health, Health Insurance Fund, and key Project stakeholders.
4. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the Health
Insurance Fund assists in the implementation of the Project by carrying out the
technical activities under Parts 1 and 2(a) of the Project.
5. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the National
Agency for Accreditation 
of Health Care 
Institutions 
assists 
in 
the
implementation of the Project by carrying out technical activities under Part 2(b)
and Part 3(a) of the Project.
6. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the Institute of
Public Health provides technical support to the Ministry of Health in the carrying
out of activities under Parts 1, 2(a) and 3 of the Project.
7. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the Regional
Institutes of Public Health assist in the implementation of the Project in their
respective areas or regions by carrying out technical activities under Part 1, Part
2(b) and Part 3 of the Project.
8. 
No later than 30 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through the
Ministry of Health, shall formally establish and shall thereafter maintain, the
Project Policy Board, with terms of reference, staff and resources satisfactory to
the Bank. The Project Policy Board, which shall be headed by the Minister of
Health, shall serve a deliberative and advisory function to the Project, and shall
include senior representatives from the Ministry of Health, Health Insurance
-9-
Fund, the Institute of Public Health, Regional Institutes of Public Health, and the
Ministry of Finance.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Project Operations and Grants Manual
1 .
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, the PCU, the Health Insurance
Fund, the National Agency for Accreditation of Health Care Institutions, the
Institute for Public Health, and the Regional Institutes of Public Health, shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions and requirements of an
operational manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank ("Project
Operations and Grants Manual" or "POGM"), which shall include, inter alia, the
following:
(a) 
institutional 
coordination 
and 
implementation 
arrangements 
and
procedures for the Project;
(b) 
financial management and procurement procedures for the Project;
(c) 
arrangements for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of Project
implementation;
(d) 
such other administrative, 
financial, technical and organizational
arrangements, requirements and procedures as shall be required for the
Project, and
(e) 
a grants manual satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
the following:
(i) 
eligibility criteria for Beneficiary Primary Health Care Centers;
(ii) 
procedures and conditions for approval, monitoring, evaluation,
and reporting of Quality Improvement Sub-grants;
(iii) 
financial management procedures and arrangements; and
(iv) 
implementation timetable for carrying out Part 1 (b) of the
Project.
-10-
2. 
The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the POGM, or any of
its provisions, without the Bank's prior agreement. In case of any conflict
between the terms of the POGM and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Quality Improvement Sub-grants
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 1(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through the Ministry of Health and with technical oversight by the Health
Insurance Fund, make available Quality Improvement Sub-grants to Beneficiary
Primary Health 
Care Centers under a Quality Improvement Sub-grant
Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and detailed in the
POGM.
2. 
The Borrower, shall take all measures necessary to ensure that, in making the
Quality Improvement Sub-grants available to Beneficiary Primary Health Care
Centers, the Ministry of Health shall obtain rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and those of the Bank, including the right to: (a)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Primary Health Care Centers to
use the proceeds of the Quality Improvement Sub-grant, or obtain a refund of all
or any part of the amount of the Quality Improvement Sub-grant then withdrawn,
upon the Beneficiary Primary Health Care Centers' failure to perform any of its
obligations under the Quality Improvement Sub-grant Agreement; and (b) require
each Beneficiary Primary Health Care Center to: (i) carry out the activities for
which the Quality Improvement Sub-grant was given with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
the recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; (ii) provide, promptly as
needed, the resources required for the purpose of the Quality Improvement Sub-
grant; (iii) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Quality Improvement Sub-grant in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement; (iv) upon reasonable request, enable the Borrower
and the Bank to inspect the activities, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and (v) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing.
3. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Quality Improvement Sub-grant
Agreement and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
-11-
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the EMF, and applicable EMPs.
The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the EMF or any EMPs,
or any provision thereof, without prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
For purposes of Part 3 of the Project, prior to the issuance of the bidding
documents for the works contract for each accelerator, the Borrower, through the
Ministry of Health, shall prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval: (a) the
proposed design and site for said works, and the related site-specific EMP in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) the draft contract for said
works, ensuring that the provisions of the site-specific EMP are adequately
included in said contract.
3. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall: (a) ensure that all activities
undertaken for purposes of carrying out the Project comply with environmental,
health and safety standards and guidelines set forth in the EMF; (b) ensure that
the selection of any accelerator site under Part 3 of the Project is done in
accordance with the EMF; (c) ensure the complete implementation of the EMPs
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including all necessary measures to
minimize and to mitigate any adverse environmental, health and safety impacts
caused by the implementation of the Project; (d) ensure that no private land
acquisition or any resettlement takes place in connection with the Project; and (e)
ensure that appropriate grievance redress mechanisms are available to interested
parties, including local communities, in connection with inconveniences
associated with any works under the Project, and that such interested parties are
informed of the availability of such grievance redress mechanisms.
Section II. 
Project Monitorina Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month
after the end of the period covered by such report.
-12-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall maintain or cause to be
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through the Ministry of Health, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than forty five days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions and agreed audit terms of reference. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
-13-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions
set out in the Attachment to this Schedule 2; (c) Shopping; and (d) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection; (b) Quality-based
Selection; (c) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (d) Least Cost Selection; (e)
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (f) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms: (g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (h) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
-14-
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the
Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Catezory 
(expressed in EUR) 
financed
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
15,617,600 
100%
services, Operating Costs,
Training and consultants'
services for the Project
(except for goods and works
for Part 3(b) (i)), including
audit, and for Quality
Improvement Sub-grants.
(2) Goods and works for Part 
13,409,650 
100%
3(b)(i) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(3) Front-end Fee 
72,750 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
Total Amount 
29,100,000
For purposes of this table:
(a) 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable and incremental expenses incurred by
the PCU on account of Project implementation, based on periodic budgets
acceptable to the Bank, for the maintenance and leasing of vehicles and
equipment, for fuel, office supplies and other consumables, vehicle and
equipment insurance, office rent, internet connection and communications costs,
support for information systems, translation costs, bank charges, utilities, and
travel, transportation, per diem and accommodation costs (other than for
Training), 
and 
other reasonable 
expenditures 
directly 
associated 
with
-15-
implementation of Project activities. 
Incremental expenses will not include
salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
(b) 
"Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants' services and non-
consulting services), incurred during the implementation of the Project, based on
periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank, for: (i) reasonable travel, room, board
and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers (which may include officials of
the Borrower's civil service) and trainees in connection with their training; (ii)
course fees; (iii) training/workshop facility and equipment rentals; and (iv)
training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses
not otherwise covered under this paragraph.
(c) 
"exclusive of Taxes" means, in connection with Section 2.06 of the General
Conditions, that the Loan proceeds shall not be used for financing of Taxes
levied by, or in the territory of the Borrower on or in respect of Eligible
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date, after which the Bank may terminate the right of the Borrower
to withdraw from the Loan Account in accordance with the General Conditions,
is September 30, 2019. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and in accordance with
the General Conditions, the Bank may establish a later date for the purpose, by
notice to the Borrower.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
No later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through the
Ministry of Health, shall cause the PCU to have installed and operational, an
accounting system and software satisfactory to the Bank.
-16-
Attachment
to
SCHEDULE 2
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth
in this Attachment to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement of even date hereto, between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Republic of Serbia,
provided, however that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the "Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-
Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers"(January 2011) (the "Procurement Guidelines"), and the following additional
provisions:
* 
"Open Tendering" procedures as defined in Public Procurement Law of Serbia
shall apply to all contracts.
* 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any
kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process. Government-
owned enterprises in Serbia shall be permitted to bid only if they are legally and
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law of the Recipient.
* 
Procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents approved by the Bank.
* 
In case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all bids shall not be
rejected without the prior concurrence of the World Bank.
* 
A single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids.
* 
Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated bidder; no bid
shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on qualification grounds.
* 
Bidders who contract as a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally liable.
* 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially responsive
bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in accordance with pre-
defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria.
* 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any
other bidders.
* 
Contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain appropriate price
adjustment provisions.
-17-
* 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the World Bank
shall include provisions stating the World Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the
Procurement Guidelines.
* 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall provide that bidders,
suppliers 
and 
contractors, 
and their subcontractors, 
agents, 
personnel,
consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the World Bank to
inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the submission of
bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by auditors appointed
by the World bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the World
Bank's inspection and audit rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines
constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Guidelines.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February I and August 1
Beginning August 1, 2019
through and including February 1, 2029 
5.0%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-19-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: a) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiary Primary Health Care Center" means a primary health care center in
the territory of the Borrower determined to be eligible for receiving a Quality
Improvement Sub-grant, in accordance with Section D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Project Operations and Grants Manual.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
5. 
"Diagnosis-Related Group" or "DRG" means a statistical system of classifying
any inpatient stay into groups for the purposes of hospital payments.
6. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Borrower's
Environmental Management Framework, dated October, 2013, consisting of the
set of principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to assess the environmental,
health and safety impacts and mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures
to be taken to eliminate adverse said environmental, health and safety impacts,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions and budget
needed to implement these measures and a sample Environmental Management
Plan.
7. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" 
or 
"EMP" 
means 
a 
site-specific
Environmental Management Plan prepared during the implementation of the
Project, in accordance with the EMF, describing the environmental, health and
safety mitigation measures anticipated for activities under Part 3 (b) of the
Project and the parties responsible for monitoring of construction and operational
environmental, health and safety impacts.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
-21-
9. 
"Health Insurance Fund" means the Borrower's Health Insurance Fund, or any
successor thereto, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law on Health
Insurance, published in its Official Gazette RS, No. 107/2005, 109/2005,
57/2011, 110/2012, 119/2012.
10. 
"Health Management Information System" means the health management
information system to be implemented under Part 3(a) of the Project.
11. 
"Health Technology Assessment" means a systematic and transparent appraisal
and deliberation process that uses criteria such as efficacy, cost-effectiveness,
population health needs, and overall fiscal space to make decisions on the public
reimbursement of medical technologies, devices and procedures.
12. 
"Independent Service Organization" means an entity providing repair and
maintenance services on equipment supplied by third party manufacturers.
13. 
"Institute of Public Health" means the Borrower's National Institute of Public
Health, or any successor thereto, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law on
Health Care, published in its Official Gazette RS, No.107/2005, 72/2009,
88/2010, 99/2010, 57/2011.
14. 
"Ministry of Health" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health or any successor
thereto.
15. 
"National Agency for Accreditation of Health Care Institutions" means the
Borrower's National Agency for Accreditation of Health Care Institutions, or any
successor thereto, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law on Public
Agencies, published in the Official Gazette RS, No. 18/05, 81/05, the Borrower's
Law on Healthcare, published in the Official Gazette RS, No. 107/2005, 72/2009,
88/2010, 99/2010, 57/2011, and the Borrower's Decision on Establishing the
Accreditation Agency, published in the Official Gazette RS, No. 94/08.
16. 
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, to be established within the
Borrower's Ministry of Health, in accordance with Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
17. 
"Primary Health Care Center" means a Dom zdravlja, a primary health care
center located in the territory of the Borrower.
18. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
-22-
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 15, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
20. 
"Project Policy Board" means the Project Policy Board, to be established by the
Borrower, in accordance with Section I.A.8 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Quality Improvement Sub-grant" means the sub-grant made available to a
Beneficiary Primary Health Care Center, for the purposes of Part 1 (b)(ii) of the
Project, in accordance with the provisions of the Grants Manual and Section D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Quality Improvement Sub-grant Agreement" means the agreement entered into
by the Borrower and a Beneficiary Primary Health Care Center for the purposes
of making a Quality Improvement Sub-Grant, in accordance with Section D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Regional Institute of Public Health" means an entity established pursuant to the
Borrower's Law on Health Care published in its Official Gazette RS, No.
107/2005, 72/2009, 88/2010, 99/2010, 57/2011, and the Borrower's Decree on
Health Institutions Network published in its Official Gazette RS, No. 42/2006,
119/2007, 84/2008, 71/2009, 85/2009, 24/2010, 6/2012, 37/2012, in charge of
covering the area of several municipalities, a large city or a geographic region of
the Borrower for purposes of collecting, monitoring, and providing healthcare
related data (including social, medical, hygienic, ecological, epidemiological and
microbiological data).
-23-
