P OFFWAL
LOAN NUMBER 8400-MD
Loan Agreement
(Second Competitiveness Enhancement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
< 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8400-MD
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
j 
, 2014, between the
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million United States Dollars
(US$30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing Part 3 of the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the MOE and the MOF
(with regards to Part 3 (a) of the Project), in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
-2-
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower; and
(b) 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonautilor Street, 7
MD2005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Facsimile:
(37322) 225393
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By
Auth 
ed Representative
ame: Andrian Candu
Title: Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Abdoulaye Seck
Title: Country Manager
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the export competitiveness of the
Borrower's enterprises and decrease the regulatory burden they face.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Regulatory Reform
(a) 
Improving the timely delivery of the Borrower's business regulatory
reform strategies and the quality of the business enabling environment
through:
(i) 
strengthening 
the 
Borrower's 
oversight 
of the 
business
regulatory reform strategy implementation through, inter alia,
developing and implementing methodologies to monitor the
implementation of the reform strategies by the Borrower's public
authorities;
(ii) 
increasing the accountability of the Borrower's public authorities
through measuring and disclosing information on the impacts
caused by the actions of the Borrower's public authorities on the
business community through, 
inter alia: developing and
implementing a system for monitoring and reporting based on
performance indicators for the Borrower's public authorities
with a business regulatory function, including a Performance
Monitoring Action Plan;
(iii) 
reviewing the Borrower's legal and regulatory framework and its
implementation to avoid unjustified costs on businesses; AND
(iv) 
conducting events and communication campaigns in support of
regulatory reform.
(b) 
Implementing priority reforms to improve export competitiveness
through:
(i) 
simplifying the process to obtain Permissive Documents required
by the Borrower for an enterprise to do business;
(ii) 
Strengthening the Borrower's competition capacity through,
inter alia: (A) supporting the dissemination and implementation
-5-
of the Competition Law; and (B) providing technical assistance
to draft amendments to laws and regulations to remove
provisions causing anti-competitive behaviors.
(c) 
Provision of financing of payments under the Eligible Expenditure
Program (EEP) in support of the business regulatory reform by: (i)
establishing and applying performance indicators for the Borrower's
entities with a business regulatory function; and (ii) the introduction of
reforms to reduce regulatory barriers and remove anti-competitive
obstacles in legislation and regulation, all in accordance with the
provisions set forth in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Part 2. SME Development
(a) 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of ODIMM and MIEPO to
facilitate business sophistication and integration into global supply
chains for SMEs and exporters.
(b) 
Establishing a Matching Grant Facility (MGF) to assist Matching Grant
Beneficiaries in the implementation of business improvement plans
focused on export competitiveness including:
(i) 
providing support to the Borrower to, inter alia: (A) develop the
Matching Grant Manual; (B) design a communication strategy
for the MGF; (C) develop and implement a monitoring and
evaluation strategy for Part 2(b)(ii) below; and (D) strengthening
the Borrower and, when applicable, ODIMM or MIEPO's
capacity to supervise the MGF; and
(ii) 
providing Matching Grants to Matching Grant Beneficiaries to
implement business improvement plans focused on export
competitiveness.
(c) 
Provision of financing of payments under the Eligible Expenditure
Program (EEP) to support the institutional strengthening of ODIMM and
MIEPO by: (i) developing and implementing a strategy for ODIMM that
promotes organizational effectiveness and segmentation of delivery
assistance mechanisms to meet the needs of SMEs; and (ii) developing
and implementing a strategy for MIEPO that promotes organizational
effectiveness, market segmentation for improved export promotion
delivery assistance mechanisms, all in accordance with the provisions set
forth in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-6-
Part 3. Access to Finance
(a) 
Provision of Sub-loans by Eligible PFIs to support investment and
working capital financing needs of Beneficiary Enterprises.
(b) 
Providing support to ODIMM to revise and implement its credit
guarantee scheme.
(c) 
Provision of technical assistance to MOE, MOF, other relevant
Recipient's public authorities and financial institutions in the Borrower's
territory on developing value chain financing models.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower, through the MOE, shall be
responsible for the overall implementation (including the financial management
and procurement aspects) of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through the MOE, shall maintain the PIU until completion of the
Project with staff, resources and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and in
accordance with the Operational Manual and shall assign to it responsibility for
overall daily management of the Project. Any additional staff of the PIU financed
under the Project shall be selected and hired in accordance with Section III of this
Schedule.
3. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall maintain, throughout the Project
implementation, the Credit Line Directorate (CLD), which shall be responsible
for the day to day management and implementation of Part 3(a) of the Project.
The CLD shall be provided with adequate staff, funding, facilities and other
resources satisfactory to the Bank and required for implementation of Part 3(a) of
the Project. The CLD's functions shall include, inter alia: (a) evaluating
compliance with Sub-loan appraisal practices with the Project's fiduciary and
safeguards requirements; (b) collection (repayment) of funds advanced to
Eligible PFIs; and (c) monitoring the financial condition of Eligible PFIs and
other matters related to implementation of Part 3(a) of the Project.
B. 
Line of Credit and Subsidiary Financing Agreement
1 .
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and adopt a LOC Operational Manual under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and (b) thereafter, carry out Part
3(a) of the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth in the LOC
Operational 
Manual, 
including eligibility criteria for Eligible PFIs and
Beneficiary Enterprises, selection procedures and implementation conditions.
The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the
LOC Operational Manual without prior approval of the Bank. In case of any
conflict between the terms of the LOC Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
Prior to the implementation of any activity under Part 3(a) of the Project, the
Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to each Eligible
PFI under a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Borrower and the
-8-
Eligible PFI, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set forth in
the LOC Operational Manual, which shall include:
(a) 
the obligation of the Eligible PFI to comply with the pertinent provisions
of this Agreement (including the pertinent obligations set forth in the
Safeguards, Procurement and Financial Management sections), the
Operational Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(b) 
the principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Eligible PFI under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall
be denominated in US Dollars, Euro, or Moldovan Lei;
(c) 
If the Sub-Loan is denominated in US Dollars or Euro the currency risk
will be shared between the Eligible PFI and the Borrower, and if the Sub-
Loan is denominated in Moldovan Lei, the Borrower will assume the
currency risk;
(d) 
the Subsidiary Financing shall be charged semi-annually, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at
a rate calculated as set forth on the LOC Operational Manual;
(e) 
the obligation of the Eligible PFI to assume the credit risk of Sub-loans;
(f) 
the Subsidiary Financing amount shall be equivalent to the aggregate
amounts of principals of all Sub-loans made by the respective Eligible
PFI, and said Eligible PFI shall repay to the Borrower the Subsidiary
Financing amount in full regardless of the Sub-loan payments received;
(g) 
the right of the Eligible PFI to the use of the proceeds of its respective
Subsidiary Financing shall be suspended upon: (i) failure of such Eligible
PFI to perform any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreement; and/or (ii) failure of such Eligible PFI to comply
with the eligibility criteria set forth on the LOC Operational Manual; and
(h) 
the obligation of the Eligible PFI to enter into an agreement with each
Beneficiary Enterprise (Sub-loan Agreement) for the provision of a Sub-
loan for a Sub-Project on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
and set forth in the LOC Operational Manual, which shall include:
(i) 
the obligation of each Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out Sub-
Projects in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
(Procurement); the Operational Manual, the EMF and, when
applicable, prepare EMPs in accordance with the EMF, in form
-9-
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and to implement said
activities in accordance with the relevant EMP;
(ii) 
the principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be denominated in
Euro, US dollars or Moldovan Lei; and
(iii) 
Sub-loan amounts will be subject to limits, depending on the
Sub-loan type, as set forth in the LOC Operational Manual.; and
(iv) 
the right of the Eligible PFI to take or permit to be taken all
actions to comply with its obligations under each Sub-loan
Agreement.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive a provision or provisions of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
C. 
Operational Manual
The Borrower shall adopt and carry out the Project in accordance with the
requirements set forth in the Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any provision of the Operational Manual without prior
approval of the Bank. In case of any conflict between the terms of the
Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Eligible PFIs to carry out part 3(a) of the
Project in accordance with the EMF.
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Eligible PFIs to cause the Beneficiary
Enterprises to, when applicable, prior to carrying out any Subproject under Part
3(a) of the Project, prepare EMPs in accordance with the EMF, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, and to implement said Subproject in
accordance with the relevant EMP.
-10-
3. 
Under Part 3(a) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that no investments
involving the involuntary acquisition of land or the displacement of persons, or
investments that involve the use or potential pollution of international waterways
or any other investment included in the negative list of investments included in
the EMF, are financed with the proceeds of the Loan.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Mid-Term Review
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
report.
2. 
By July 15, 2018, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower
shall carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of
the activities under the Project (Mid-term Review). The Mid-term Review shall
cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. Following such
Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently to take any
corrective action as shall have been agreed with the Bank.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
-ll-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of
the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions specified in Annex A to this
Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Procurement in Loans to
Financial Intermediary Institutions and Entities.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
method, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
-12-
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-Based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least-Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on the Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-Source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (h) Selection of Consultants in Loans to Financial
Intermediary Institutions and Entities.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-13-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Sub-loans under Part 3 (a) 
29,400,000 
100 %
of the Project
(2) Goods, consultant's 
600,000 
100 %
services (including audits),
Non-Consulting Services,
Training and Incremental
Operating Costs under Parts
3(b) and 3(c) of the Project;
and audits under Part 3 (a) of
the Project.
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30m0m
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee;
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after May 7, 2014, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and
(2); AND
(c) 
for payments under Category (1) unless: (i) at least one Subsidiary
Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
an Eligible PFI; and (ii) the LOC Operational Manual has been adopted
by the Borrower.
2. 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2020.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
No later than September 30 of every year during the implementation of
the Project, beginning on September 30, 2015, prepare and furnish to the
-14-
Bank a procurement progress report (Procurement Report), in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) a
description of issues arising during the full procurement cycle under the
Project, from design through planning, bidding, contract implementation
and completion; (ii) a list of proposed measures and actions to be taken
to resolve the issues identified under (i) above; and (iii) a proposed
timeline for the implementation of the said measures and actions.
(b) 
No later than October 31 of every year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on October 31, 2015 exchange views with the Bank
on the results of the Procurement Progress Report completed for the
Borrower's previous calendar year and thereafter implement such
recommended measures, as agreed with the Bank.
-15-
ANNEX A
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting
Services under Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and
Section I and paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, the procurement
procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be the Open Bidding
Procedure set forth in the Law on Procurement No. 96-XVI dated April 13, 2007, as
further amended on September 17, 2010, December 23, 2011, March 30, 2012, April 12,
2012, June 15, 2012, and June 14, 2013 (the "PPL"), provided, however, that such
procedure shall be subject to the following additional provisions:
Eligibility: Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines;
accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts
financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines.
Registration of Contractors and Suppliers: Registration shall not be used to assess
bidders' qualifications. A foreign bidder shall not be required to register as a condition
for submitting its bid, and a foreign bidder recommended for contract award shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to register, with the reasonable cooperation of the
Borrower, prior to contract signing.
Participation of Joint Ventures: Participation of Joint Ventures shall be allowed and all its
members shall be jointly and severally liable for the entire contract.
Bidding Documents: Bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used, and shall
be prepared so as to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency
with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
Qualification: Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents.
All criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used to determine
whether a bidder is qualified. Qualification shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis,
and merit points shall not be used. Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the
bidder's or prospective bidder's capability and resources to effectively perform the
contract, taking into account objective and measurable factors, including: (i) relevant
general and specific experience, and satisfactory past performance and successful
completion of similar contracts over a given period; (ii) financial position; and where
relevant, (iii) capability of construction and/or manufacturing facilities. Prequalification
procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used for large, complex and/or
specialized works. 
The verification of the information upon which a bidder was
-16-
prequalified, including current commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract
award, along with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment. In the
procurement of goods and works where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of
the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
Cost Estimate: The detailed cost estimates shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed
to prospective bidders. No bids shall be rejected on the basis of comparison with the cost
estimates without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
Bid Submission and Bid Opening: Prospective bidders shall be given at least thirty (30)
days from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of the
bidding documents, whichever is later, to prepare and submit bids. Bids shall be opened
in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids. Bids received after the
deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to bidders unopened. A copy
of the bid opening minutes shall be promptly provided to all bidders who submitted bids,
and to the Bank with respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior review.
Bid Evaluation: Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the evaluation
criteria specified in the bidding documents. Evaluation criteria other than price shall be
quantified in monetary terms. Merit points shall not be used, and no minimum point or
percentage value shall be assigned to the significance of price, in bid evaluation.
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been determined: (i) to
be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (ii) to offer the lowest-
evaluated cost. No negotiations shall be permitted. A bidder shall not be required, as a
condition for award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or
otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. A bidder shall not be eliminated
from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantial deviations.
Reiection of All Bids and Re-bidding: All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is received)
shall not be rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall
not be solicited without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
Bid Validity: The bid validity period required by the bidding documents shall be
sufficient to account for any period that may be required for the approval and registration
of the contract as contemplated in the PPL. If justified by exceptional circumstances, an
extension of bid validity may be requested in writing from all bidders before the original
bid validity expiration date, provided that such extension shall cover only the minimum
period required to complete the evaluation, award a contract, and/or complete the
registration process, but not more than thirty (30) days; a corresponding extension of any
bid guarantee also shall be required in such cases. A Bidder may refuse the request for
extension of bid validity without forfeiting its bid guarantee. No further extensions shall be
requested without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
-17-
Guarantees: Guarantees shall be in the format included in the bidding documents. The bid
guarantee shall be valid for twenty-eight days (28) beyond the original validity period of
the bid, or beyond any period of extension if requested. No advance payments shall be
made without a suitable advance payment guarantee. Performance security shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract amount.
Fraud and Corruption: The bidding documents and contract as deemed acceptable by the
Bank shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals,
found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
Inspection and Audit Rights: Each bidding document and contract financed out the
proceeds of the Financing shall provide that bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their
subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall
permit the Bank to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's
inspection and audit rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines constitute an
obstructive practice as defined in the Guidelines.
Contract Modifications: With respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, the
Borrower shall obtain the Bank's no objection before agreeing to: 
(a) a material
extension of the stipulated time for performance of a contract; (b) any substantial
modification of the scope of services or other significant changes to the terms and
conditions of the contract; (c) any variation order or amendment (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which, singly or combined with all variation orders or amendments
previously issued, increases the original contract amount by more than fifteen percent
(15%); or (d) the proposed termination of the contract. 
A copy of all contract
amendments shall be provided to the Bank.
-1I8-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May I5and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2019
through May 15, 2044 
2%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal 
Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-19-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiary Enterprise" means an enterprise satisfying the appropriate criteria as
set forth in the LOC Operational Manual, including, inter alia, export oriented
enterprises and enterprises that provide goods and services to export oriented
enterprises, to which an Eligible PFI provides a Sub-Loan.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Category A Activity" means an activity that in the opinion of the Bank, is likely
to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented
on the environment and/or affected people.
5. 
"Credit Line Directorate" or "CLD" means the unit established by the Borrower
under the MOF pursuant to Government Decision 953 dated September 9, 2001,
or its successor.
6. 
"Competition Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 183, dated July 11, 2012.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8. 
"Eligible Expenditure Program" or "EEP" means a portion of the Borrower's
budgetary allocation for financing employee's compensation and mandatory state
social insurance contributions for the Borrower's staff incurred by the Borrower
for carrying out the activities under Parts 1(c) and 2(c) of the Project.
9. 
"Eligible PFI" means a commercial bank registered according to the applicable
laws and regulations of the Borrower and selected by the Borrower, with
approval by the Bank, to participate in the Project pursuant to criteria set forth in
the LOC Operational Manual.
10. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Borrower's
environmental management framework, satisfactory to the Bank, dated March
25, 2014, describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures under the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the Bank's prior approval.
-21-
11. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" 
or 
"EMP" 
means 
a 
site-specific
Environmental Management Plan prepared under Parts 2(b) or 3(a) of the Project
in accordance with the EMF, describing the environmental mitigation measures
anticipated for activities under said Parts of the Project and the parl:ies
responsible for monitoring environmental impacts.
12. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all appendices,
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
14. 
"ICT" means information and communication technologies.
15. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower on
account of Project implementation for travel; rent of premises and utilities; office
supplies; communication costs; bank charges; operation, maintenance and
insurance of vehicles; maintenance of office equipment; printing, publications
and advertisements (electronic and/or paper);, translation; consumables; salaries
and mandatory state social insurance contribution for non-professional staff
assigned to the PIU (excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants and
permanent employees); and other expenditures to be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank, all based on the semi-annual budgets acceptable to the
Bank.
16. 
"LOC Operational Manual" means the manual setting forth the eligibility criteria,
selection process, on-lending terms and implementation for the purposes of
carrying out the activities under Part 3(a) of the Project.
17. 
"Matching Grant" means a grant to be provided by the Borrower out of the
Matching Grant Facility to each Matching Grant Beneficiary, from the proceeds
of the Financing for the purposes of carrying out activities under Part 2(b) of the
Project, including:: (A) improving existing products and services; (B) creating
new products and services; (C) improving production processes; (D) improving
business management; (E) improving the business' image; (F) finding new
customers and markets; and (G) creating and strengthening partnerships within
the value chain; but excluding any Category A Activity.
18. 
"Matching Grant Beneficiaries" means SMEs selected in accordance with open
and transparent procedures, as established in the Matching Grant Manual, which
will benefit from the provision of Matching Grants under Part 2(b) of the Project.
-22-
19. 
"Matching Grant Facility" means the mechanism to provide Matching Grants to
eligible Matching Grants Beneficiaries for the purposes of co-financing the
activities implementing Part 2(b) of the Project, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
20. 
"Matching Grant Manual" means the manual setting forth the eligibility criteria,
selection process and implementation for the purposes of carrying out the
activities under Part 2(b)(ii) of the Project.
21. 
"MIEPO" means the Borrower's Export Promotion and Investment Attraction
Agency created pursuant to the Borrower's Government Decision No. 105 dated
February 9, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
22. 
"MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, or any of its successor or
successors thereto.
23. 
"Moldovan Lei" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
24. 
"Non-Consulting Services" the reasonable expenditures incurred on account of
Project implementation to cover reasonable costs of data collection services, and
other services which are not rendered by consultants, and which are not covered
by Incremental Operating Costs.
25. 
"ODIMM" means the Borrower's SME Development Agency created pursuant to
the Borrower's Government Decision No. 659 dated October 21, 1993, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
26. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual adopted by the Borrower and
acceptable to the Bank and including the EMF, and setting out the operational
and administrative procedures, responsibilities, and rules for the implementation
of the Project, and including, inter alia, arrangements for Project implementation,
the monitoring and evaluation guide, and arrangements for procurement under
the Project.
27. 
"Performance Monitoring Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan developed
under Part 1(a)(ii) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, as it may be amended from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
28. 
"PIU" means the Project Implementing Unit created pursuant to Government
Decision No. 895, dated August 25, 2005.
29. 
"Permissive Documents" means the documents required by the Borrower for an
enterprise to do business, pursuant to the Borrower's applicable laws and
regulations.
-23-
30. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
31. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 7, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
32. 
"RIA" means the regulatory impact assessment required for legislation and
regulation that affect businesses, pursuant to the Borrower's law No. 235, dated
July 20, 2006
33. 
"RIA Secretariat" means the Borrower's unit responsible of RIA.
34. 
"SME" means small and medium enterprise.
35. 
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by an Eligible PFI, out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table
set forth in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of
financing all or a portion of the expenditures incurred by a Beneficiary Enterprise
for goods, services, works and/or working capital under a Sub-project.
36. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between a
Beneficiary Enterprise and an Eligible PFI pursuant to the provisions set forth in
the LOC Operational Manual for the provision to the Beneficiary Enterprise of a
Sub-loan for the carrying out of a Sub-project.
37. 
"Sub-project" means a specific investment or financing for working capital,
selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the LOC Operational Manual,
which is proposed to be carried out by a Beneficiary Enterprise, in whole or in
part through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
38. 
"Subsidiary Financing" means the amount equivalent to the aggregate amounts of
principals of all Sub-loans made by a respective Eligible PFI, as referred to in
Section 1.B.2(f) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
39. 
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered
into between the Borrower and an Eligible PFI pursuant to Section .B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement.
40. 
"Training" means (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the
Borrower 
to finance the 
reasonable travel 
costs (i.e. 
accommodation,
-24-
transportation, travel insurance and per diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers
(if applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and
equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials, all for the
purposes of, and directly related to, the training activities (including study tours)
described in the Project, all based on the semi-annual budgets acceptable to the
Bank.
-25-
