U-MENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8422-UA
Loan Agreement
(First Programmatic Financial Sector Development Policy Loan)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
'J 
, 2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8422-UA
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2014, entered into between UKRAINE ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties hereto
in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions. Such
amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending agreement.
1.03. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million Dollars ($ 500,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article 11 as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
-2-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or of any single
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
Facsimile:
(380-44) 425-90-26
(380-44) 277-54-82
-3-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Kiev, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written.
UKRAINE
By
7 
Authorized Representative
Name: ,LRO"q 
1 
XYL X.
Title: j 
KAQ~0S 
cvx~
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Author ed Representative
Name: q-i-..
Title: Q ~x~~ 
& o~
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
1. 
The Borrower has strengthened DGF's financial capacity by establishing a mechanism for
long-term back-up funding from the Borrower, through enactment of the Law "On
Amendments to the State Budget Law of Ukraine of Year 2014", 1333-VII dated
17.06.2014, Official Gazette #127 (5877) dated July 8, 2014, and adoption of the Cabinet
of Ministers Resolution dated July 9, 2014.
2. 
The Borrower has expanded the range of bank resolution instruments and streamlined the
resolution process through enactment of the Law "On Amendments to the Legislation on
Minimization of Negative Effect on Stability of the Banking System", 1586-VII dated
04.07.2014, Official Gazette #129 (5879), dated July 10, 2014 , amending the Law "On
Individual Deposit Guarantee System", Official Gazette 4452-VI (23 February 2012), to
introduce improved provisions on, inter alia: (a) the use of bridge banks by the DGF
without an identified investor; (b) the operation of bad asset entities to consolidate bad
assets from multiple banks; and (c) state participation in the bank resolution process.
3. 
DGF's administrative council has approved (a) a revised operational budget, through
Administrative Council Decision #12, dated April 2, 2014; and (b) a staffing plan for
2014, through DGF Executive Directorate decision 066/14, dated April 7, 2014.
4. 
The NBU and DGF have signed the "Agreement on Amendment to the Agreement on
cooperation and coordination of activities", dated May 8, 2014, to improve the sharing of
information on Problem Banks between the two institutions.
5. 
The Borrower's respective authorities have established the key principles of the bank
recapitalization and restructuring process through: (a) adoption of NBU Board Decision
#326, dated May 30, 2014, on a corrective action plan for dealing with undercapitalized
banks; and (b) adoption of the Decision by the high-level GOU/NBU/DGF Steering
Committee, dated July 3, 2014, on the criteria for state participation in the bank
recapitalization process.
6. 
NBU has issued Resolution #272, dated May 12, 2014, on launching independent
diagnostic studies for the thirty-five (35) Largest Banks, based on acceptable terms of
reference, and the fifteen (15) Largest Banks have each signed a contract with a qualified
audit firm.
7. 
The Borrower and NBU have introduced additional criteria for the timely identification
of Problem Banks through: (a) enactment of the Law "On Amendments to the Legislation
on Minimization of Negative Effect on Stability of Banking System", 1586-VII dated
04.07.2014, Official Gazette #129 (5879), dated July 10, 2014 , amending the Law on
Banks; and (b) adoption of NBU Regulation #332, issued June 3, 2014.
-5-
8. 
The Borrower has strengthened the corporate governance requirements of commercial
banks through enactment of the Law "On Amendments to the Law on Banks and Banking
on defining the Peculiarities on Corporate Governance in Banks", 1587-VIl dated
04.07.2014, Official Gazette #129 (5879), dated July 10, 2014, amending the Law on
Banks.
9. 
NBU has commenced disclosure of banks' ultimate beneficiary owners as evidenced by
up-to-date and accurate ownership information about the thirty-five (35) Largest Banks
published on the NBU website.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
498,750,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,250,000
(3) Amount due pursuant to 
0
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500.000.000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied (1) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (2) with the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
-6-
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is November 30, 2014.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2021 
5.56%
through August, 2029
On February 15, 2030 
5.48%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-8-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"DGF" or "Deposit Guarantee Fund" means the Borrower's Deposit Guarantee Fund
established and operating pursuant to the Law "On Individual Deposit Guarantee
System" of February 23, 2012 (Official Gazette 4452-IV), as amended by the Law "On
Amendments to the Legislation On Minimization of Negative Effect on Stability of
Banking System", 1586-VI dated 04.07.2014, Official Gazette #129 (5879), dated July
10, 2014).
2. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
- 10-
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
3. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
4. 
"GOU/ NBU/ DGF Steering Committee" means the Borrower's committee on the issue
of state participation in the bank recapitalization process, established by Cabinet of
Ministers Decision No. 105, dated April 1, 2014.
5. 
"Largest Banks" means the largest banks as assessed by NBU based on banks' assets.
6. 
"Law on Banks" means the Borrower's Law "On Banks and Banking" (Official Gazette
#2121-IlI, December 7, 2000).
7. 
"NBU" means the National Bank of Ukraine, the Borrower's national bank.
8. 
"Problem Banks" means banks which meet the criteria for "Problem Banks" as set forth
in the Law on Banks, as amended by the Law "On Amendments to the Legislation on
Minimization of Negative Effect on Stability of Banking System", 1586-VII dated
04.07.2014, Official Gazette #129 (5879), dated July 10, 2014 and NBU Regulation
#332, issued June 3, 2014.
9. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to (a)
strengthen the operational, financial and regulatory capacity of DGF for the resolution of
insolvent banks; (b) improve the solvency of the banking system through implementation
of bank recapitalization/restructuring plans and timely enforcement action; and (c)
strengthen the legal and institutional framework to improve the resiliency and efficiency
of the banking system, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated July 8, 2014 from the
-ll-
Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
10. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
- 12-
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."
8. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
9. 
In paragraph 36 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is
modified to read as follows:
"36. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
10. 
Paragraph 43 of the Appendix ("Financial Statements") is deleted in its entirety and the
subsequent paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
I1. 
In the renumbered paragraph 66 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"66. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at
the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if
any), any premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
12. 
In the renumbered paragraph 74 (originally paragraph 75) of the Appendix, the defined
term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified to read as
follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed
to be references to "Program"):
"74. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
- 13 -
