OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8322-IQ
Loan Agreement
(Transport Corridors Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
2 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8322-IQ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
O 
, 2014, between REPUBLIC OF
IRAQ ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred fifty-five million
Dollars (USD 355,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September 1 in each year.
-2-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.1, B.3, B.4 and
C.1 of the Project through State Commission for Roads and Bridges (SCRB) and
Parts A.6, A.7, B.2 and C.2 through the General Directorate for Roads and
Bridges (GDRB), all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hay Alaloom
Bab Al Mu'dham
Baghdad, Iraq
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at___ 
d 
{\ßlidt, as of
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
By
........... 
............
Mi 
r of F 
c 
thorized Representative
Milnister's Office
............................... 
..............
Narne: 
1 -JX
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
-
uthorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
(lz\ 
(eg
-5-
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve road transport connectivity and safety
on selected road sections along Expressway I and the North-South Transport Corridor in
Iraq.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Transport Corridors Improvements
1. 
Rehabilitation, maintenance and road safety improvement of select sections of
Expressway 1 road network namely: about 145 km of section R7 (Nasiria -
Rumaila), about 31 km of section R8A (Basra Junction - Basra) and about 81 km
of section R8B (Rumaila - Safwan).
2. 
Design and construction of service lay-bys along sections R6, R7 and R8 of
Expressway 1, including designing and construction of access roads and facilities
to facilitate movement of people with limited mobility on these sections.
3. 
Design and construction on a pilot basis of a fibre optic cable network along
section R8B (Rumaila - Safivan) of Expressway 1.
4. 
Carrying out supervision of civil works, and environmental and social
management associated with the civil works, under parts A. 1 and A.2 of the
Project.
5. 
Carrying out supervision of civil works, and environmental and social
management associated with the civil works, under part A.3 of the Project.
6. 
Carrying out a program to upgrade, rehabilitate and improve select section of
North-South Transport Corridor consisting of civil works of about 23 km of road
between Girsheen and Suheila intersection.
7. 
Carrying out supervision of civil works, and environmental and social
management associated with the civil works, under part A.6 of the Project.
Part B: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building in the Road Sector
Carrying out a program of technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of
Borrower's institutions and other stakeholders to plan and manage road assets
effectively such a program to consist of the following activities.
1. 
Support organizational and capacity improvement at MOCH and SCRB through:
-6-
(a) 
Developing an effective road sector organizational structure with clear
responsibilities at all levels, including sector level coordination and
regulation.
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services to enhance road sector
governance including, supporting publication and better dissemination of
information on planned, as well as completed activities to stakeholders
and road users.
(c) 
Awareness raising on routine maintenance and improving capacity.
(d) 
Development of information and communications systems designed to
enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of road management including,
communication and surveillance systems for traffic safety monitoring,
enforcement of axle-load limit enforcement and citizens' roadway
reporting system for public outreach and communications to and from
road users and adjacent communities on road conditions and issues.
(e) 
Provision of on-the-job training to strengthen capacity of SCRB in
strategic 
planning, 
programming, 
maintenance 
monitoring 
and
supervision.
(f) 
Strengthening 
capacity 
in 
procurement, 
financial 
and 
contract
management.
(g) 
Provision of technical advisory service to support the analysis and
development of relevant regulations and standards that apply to all
phases of the road life cycle.
(h) 
Provision of Training to managerial and technical staff of SCRB.
(i) 
Provision of technical assistance for highways and roads sector-related
studies.
2. 
Support organizational and capacity improvement at GDRB through:
(a) 
Developing an effective road sector organizational structure with clear
responsibilities at all levels, including sector level coordination and
regulation.
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services to enhance road sector
governance including, supporting publication and better dissemination of
information on planned, as well as completed activities to stakeholders
and road users.
(c) 
Awareness raising on routine maintenance and improving capacity.
-7-
(d) 
Development of information and communications systems designed to
enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of road management including,
communication and surveillance systems for traffic safety monitoring,
enforcement of axle-load limit enforcement and citizens' roadway
reporting system for public outreach and communications to and from
road users and adjacent communities on road conditions and issues.
(e) 
Provision of on-the-job training to strengthen capacity of GDRB in
strategic 
planning, 
programming, 
maintenance 
monitoring 
and
supervision.
(f) 
Strengthening 
capacity 
in 
procurement, 
financial 
and 
contract
management.
(g) 
Provision of technical advisory service to support the analysis and
development of relevant regulations and standards that apply to all
phases of the road life cycle.
(h) 
Provision of Training to managerial and technical staff of GDRB.
3. 
Carrying out a program of organizational improvement of state-owned and
MOCH controlled construction companies.
4. 
Provision of Training to local contractors and consultants to enhance their
capacity in overall project management and thereby improve the quality of their
bid submission and delivery of high quality products (including studies, designs,
structures, roads) on time.
Part C: Project Management and Monitoring
1 .
Carrying out Project management and support activities necessary for effective
implementation of the Project by SCRB, including the provision of technical
assistance and Training.
2. 
Carrying out Project management and support activities necessary for effective
implementation of the Project by GDRB, including the provision of technical
assistance and Training.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Coordination Unit. The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project
implementation, a project coordination unit with staffing, terms of reference and
resources satisfactory to the Bank to be responsible for inter alia overall
coordination of the Project and for facilitation of Project implementation.
2. 
SCRB-PMT and GDRB-PMT
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure, or shall cause SCRB and GDRB,
respectively, to ensure, that the SCRB-PMT and the GDRB-PMT are
maintained with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the
Bank. SCRB-PMT shall be headed by a SCRB-PMT Leader and the
GDRB-PMT shall be headed by a GDRB-PMT Leader. These leaders
shall have qualifications and experience, and be appointed on terms and
conditions, satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation on paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall ensure, or
shall cause SCRB and GDRB, respectively to ensure, that the
SCRB-PMT and the GDRB-PMT are staffed with an adequate number of
professionals, 
including 
specialists 
in 
procurement, 
engineering,
financial management, monitoring and reporting, and environmental and
social safeguards.
B. 
Counterpart Funds
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out by SCRB of A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.1, B.3, B.4
and C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to SCRB under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out by GDRB of Parts A.6, A.7, B.2 and C.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to GDRB under terms
and conditions approved by the Bank.
(b) 
cause KRG to provide in timely fashion Counterpart Funds in the amount
satisfactory to the Bank.
-9-
C. 
Project Operations Manual
The Borrower shall ensure - and shall cause each SCRB and GDRB to ensure -
that the Project is carried out in accordance with the arrangements and
procedures set out in the Project Operations Manual (provided, however, that in
case of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures set out in the
Project Operations Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions
of this Agreement shall prevail), and shall not amend, abrogate or waive, or
permit to be amended, abrogated or waived, the Project Operations Manual or
any of its provisions without prior approval in writing by the Bank.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with ESIA, RAP, ESIAF
and RPF in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
If an ESMP and/or SRAP would be required for any proposed Project activities
on the basis of the ESJAF and the RPF, the Borrower shall: (a) proceed to have
said instrument prepared, furnished to the Bank for review and approval, and
thereafter adopted and disclosed prior to the implementation of such activities;
(b) take all such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to comply with the
requirements of said instrument; and (c) not amend, abrogate or waive, or permit
to be amended, abrogated or waived, said instrument or any provision thereof
without prior approval in writing by the Bank, subject to the same approval
requirements as applicable to the adoption of the said instrument.
3. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Borrower and the
Bank, on a quarterly basis, reports on the status of compliance with each of the
ESIAF, RPF, ESIA, RAP, the ESMPs, Environmental and Social Audits and the
SRAPs, and giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of such instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
-10-
4. 
The Borrower shall promptly implement the measures set forth in the
Environmental and Social Audits as agreed upon with the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitorina Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause SCRB and GDRB to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause SCRB and GDRB to maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect
the operations and financial condition of SCRB and GDRB, respectively,
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to their respective
part of the Project.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause SCRB and GDRB to have their respective financial
statements referred to above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank. Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of SCRB and GDRB, respectively, or any other period agreed upon
with the Bank. The audited financial statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of the period.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause SCRB and GDRB to recruit, not later than six (6)
months after the Effective Date, the independent auditors referred to in
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions, in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 of this Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to
-11-
the Bank to be responsible for inter alia performing financial and technical audits
of the Project.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to using the standard bidding documents included in the Master
Implementation Manual acceptable to the Bank; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
-12-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Single-source procedures
for the Selection of Individual Consultants; (c) Least Cost Selection;
(d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms; (f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(g) Selection under a Fixed Budget.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects", dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-13-
Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, Training,
Operating Costs, non-
consulting services, and
consultants' services for 
293,772,500 
100%
Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4,
A.5, B.1, B.3, B.4 and C.1
of the Project
(2) Works for Part A.6 of the 
58,500,000 
69%
Project
(3) Goods, Training, Operating
Costs, non-consulting
services, and consultants' 
1,840,000 
100%
services for Parts A.7, B.2
and C.2 of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant 
to
887,500 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07(b)
of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
355,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 70,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments for Eligible Expenditures made not more
than twelve (12) months prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
March 1, 2019 
4.32%
September 1, 2019 
4.38%
March 1, 2020 
4.45%
September 1, 2020 
4.52%
March 1, 2021 
4.59%
September 1, 2021 
4.65%
March 1, 2022 
4.72%
September 1, 2022 
4.79%
March 1, 2023 
4.87%
September 1, 2023 
4.94%
March 1, 2024 
5.01%
September 1, 2024 
5.09%
March 1, 2025 
5.16%
September 1, 2025 
5.24%
March 1, 2026 
5.32%
September 1, 2026 
5.40%
March 1, 2027 
5.48%
September 1, 2027 
5.56%
March 1, 2028 
5.65%
September 1, 2028 
5.86%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
-15-
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Persons" means any person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction or access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 2011.
4. 
"Counterpart Funds" means an amount equivalent to USD 30 million to be made
available by KRG for purpose of cofinancing parts of the Project.
5. 
"Environmental and Social Audits" means the audits whose reports are dated
October 25, 2013, and November 14, 2013, carried out to determine the nature
and extent of all environmental and social areas of concern in relation to civil
works under Transport Corridor Program already 
completed or under
construction and identify appropriate measures to mitigate the areas of concern,
estimate the cost of the measures, and set forth schedules or plans for
implementing them.
6. 
"ESIA" or "Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" mean the study,
acceptable to the Bank, prepared and disclosed to public by the Borrower, dated
August 19, 2013, and consisting of inter alia: (i) a description of the site where
Project activities are to be carried out under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project
and the justification of said activities, including alternatives considered during the
Project design phase, (ii) the potential and actual adverse environmental and social
impacts of the activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) an
environmental and social management plan setting forth measures to be taken
during the implementation and operation of the Project to mitigate, eliminate or
otherwise offset adverse environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to
acceptable levels and to ensure compliance of the project activities with such
measures.
-17-
7. 
"ESIAF" and "Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Framework" mean
an 
environmental 
and 
social 
impact 
assessment 
framework 
dated
August 18, 2013, adopted by the Borrower, describing the rules, guidelines and
procedures to assess environmental and social impacts of Project activities under
Part A.6 of the Project and defining measures to reduce, mitigate or offset
adverse environmental and social impacts and enhance positive impacts of said
Project activities, referred to in Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and the same as may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the
Bank.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" and the acronym "ESMP" mean,
for a given Project activity, a site specific environmental and social management
plan prepared by the Recipient in accordance with the ESIAF pursuant to
Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and the term "ESMPs" means,
collectively, all such plans.
9. 
"Expressway I" means the Borrower's road highway linking Safwan on the
Iraqi/Kuwaiti border and the town of Trebil on the Iraqi/Jordanian border and
Al-Walid on the Iraqi/Syrian border.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
11. 
"GDRB-PMT" means GDRB's project management team to be maintained
pursuant to Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"General Directorate for Roads and Bridges" and the acronym "GDRB" mean
the directorate within the KRG's ministry responsible for construction and
housing, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"KRG" means the Kurdistan Regional Government of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto.
14. 
"Master Implementation Manual" means the Borrower's implementation manual
dated 2005.
15. 
"MOCH" means the Borrower's ministry of construction and housing, and any
successor thereto.
16. 
"North-South Transport Corridor" means the road highway linking Semel and
Ibrahim Khalil in the Borrower's territory.
17. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers", dated January 2011.
-18-
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 5, 2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual dated November 2, 2013, and
referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"Specific Resettlement Action Plan" and the acronym "SRAP" mean the
Borrower's site specific abbreviated resettlement action plan or site specific
resettlement action plan to be adopted by the Borrower which sets out the
principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation
and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as such plan may
be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and the term
"SRAPs" means, collectively, all such plans.
21. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and the acronym "RAP" mean the Borrower's
Resettlement Action Plan dated November 11, 2013, and referred to in
Section I.E. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement which sets out the principles and
procedures 
governing 
land 
acquisition, 
resettlement, 
compensation 
and
rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as such plan may
be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
22. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and the acronym "RPF" mean the Borrower's
policy framework document, acceptable to the Bank, dated August 19, 2013,
providing 
procedures 
and 
guidelines 
for 
the 
preparation, 
adoption,
implementation and monitoring of Specific Resettlement Action Plans and
referred to in Section I.E. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
23. 
"State Commission for Roads and Bridges" and the acronym "SCRB" mean the
commission within the Ministry of Construction and Housing, or any successor
thereto.
24. 
"SCRB-PMT" means SCRB's Project Management Team to be maintained
pursuant to Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Transport Corridor Program" means Borrower's program involving financing of
design, construction, rehabilitation, maintenance and road safety improvement of
select sections of Expressway I and the North-South Transport Corridor.
