OFFICIAL
IDOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8354-CO
Loan Agreement
(Access with Quality to Higher Education Project-ACCES II-SOP Phase 2)
between
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO EDUCATIVO Y ESTUDIOS
TECNICOS EN EL EXTERIOR - ICETEX
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
/ 
0, _
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated De(&&Z 
201y, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") 
and 
INSTITUTO
COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO EDUCATIVO Y ESTUDIOS TECNICOS EN EL
EXTERIOR - ICETEX ("Borrower").
Whereas the Borrower hereby represents that it has the necessary legal capacity
and powers to enter into this Agreement and perform its obligations set forth herein, all
pursuant to the Borrower's Legal Framework.
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($
200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the
Program. To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on October 1, 2015.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the President of ICETEX.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
ICETEX
Carrera 3ra No. 18 - 32
Bogota, Colombia
Facsimile:
+571-599 6323
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at 
n 
/A,J>/mb 
,ed /4lp} 
, 
3. 1i ., as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
uthorized Representative
Name: 
A40v 0 
&
Title: 
q 
7
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO
EDUCATIVO Y ESTUDIOS TEC 
OS EN 
L
EXTERIOR - ICETEX
By
Aut 
riz d Representative
Title: 
_____T 
(____
-4-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase student enrollment, graduation and
equity in higher education, by: (a) increasing the number of ACCES Student Loans and
the 
ACCES 
Program's 
focus 
on students 
from disadvantaged 
socioeconomic
backgrounds and in quality higher education institutions and programs; and (b) enhancing
the Borrower's institutional capacity.
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the
following parts:
Part 1: Student Loans
Provision of ACCES Student Loans to Eligible Students to finance their tuition
and/or subsistence (sostenimiento) in Eligible HEls to pursue a Pregrado Degree.
Part 2. Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Strengthening of the Borrower's loan administration and portfolio
management (including loan collection practices) capacity through, inter
alia, the development of differentiated collection strategies based on
portfolio risks, and the upgrading of information systems (hardware and
software).
(b) 
Strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to: (i) manage its ACCES
Program through, inter alia, the use of scorecards and the carrying out of
HEI Contracts implementation supervision activities; and (ii) manage the
Sustainability Fund.
(c) 
Provision of support for the Borrower's diversification of financial
resources through, inter alia, the carrying out of: (i) studies on
alternatives to expand its funding sources and to develop an endowment
fund, and on partnerships with the private sector; and (ii) fundraising
activities.
(d) 
(i) The carrying out of: (A) impact evaluations of the Borrower's student
loans; and (B) tracer studies to track employment of HEI graduates that
completed their studies and received student loans provided by the
Borrower, including ACCES Student Loans; and (ii) the provision of
support for the Borrower's overall Project coordination, implementation,
and monitoring including, inter alia, the carrying out of audits.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual
("Operational Manual"), satisfactory to the Bank, containing specific
provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project,
including, inter alia:
(i) 
a detailed description of the institutional arrangements of the
Project;
(ii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial,
procurement and disbursement procedures;
(iii) 
the criteria and methods for the identification of the Eligible
Students;
(iv) 
the criteria, procedures and methods for the selection of Eligible
Students, and approval, implementation and monitoring of the
ACCES 
Student 
Loans, 
including 
the 
current 
and 
new
methodologies for the allocation of the ACCES Program resources;
(v) 
a model Student Loan Agreement;
(vi) 
a model HEI Contract;
(vii) 
the IPP;
(viii) 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and
(ix) 
the monitoring indicators for the Project.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or
waive any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank's prior
written approval. In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual
shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.
-6-
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, key
staff for the Project, including, without limitation, a Project coordinator, all with
terms of reference, and qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
Not later than May 15, 2014, the Borrower shall approve the new methodology
described in the Operational Manual, for the allocation ACCES Program
resources.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
2. 
By exercising its rights under the HEI Contracts (in particular under Clausula
Novena), the Borrower shall enable the Bank: (a) to inspect accounts, records and
other documents of the Eligible HEls relating to the Project upon the Bank's
request to the Borrower; and (b) at its request, to have such accounts, records and
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the terms of
reference agreed with the Bank.
C. 
Student Loans
1 .
Prior to the provision of any ACCES Student Loan, the Borrower shall enter into
an agreement ("Student Loan Agreement") with the corresponding Eligible
Student, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia,
the obligation of the Eligible Student to repay the ACCES Student Loan.
2. 
Prior to the transfer of any proceeds of the Loan (in the form of partial or full
ACCES Student Loans) to any given Eligible HEI, the Borrower shall enter into
a HEI Contract with said Eligible HEI, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, including, inter alia: (a) the Borrower's: (1) obligation to: (A) transfer
the proceeds of the ACCES Student Loans to the Eligible HEI to finance the
tuition of Eligible Students who have been selected to receive an ACCES Student
Loan; and (B) evaluate the Eligible HEI's progress against the benchmarks
corresponding to the indicators included in the Scorecard; and (ii) right to
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible HEI to use the proceeds of the
ACCES Student Loans, upon the Eligible HEI's failure to comply with any of its
obligation under the HEI Contract; and (b) the obligations of the Eligible HEI to:
(1) set up an office to provide assistance to recipients of the Borrower's loans,
including ACCES Student Loans, to graduate and manage their debt, and to
support collection efforts after graduation; (ii) monitor their progress against
benchmarks corresponding to the indicators included in the Scorecard; and (iii)
comply with the Borrower's standards and parameters, including the Operational
Manual, as applicable.
-7-
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Student Loan Agreement and/or HEI Contract, in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Student Loan
Agreement and/or HEl Contract (or any provision thereof).
4. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of any Student Loan Agreement and/or
HEI Contract and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the IPP.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of each Project Report, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Project becomes effective. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
-8-
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Cate2ory 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) ACCES 
Student Loans 
200,000,000 
100%
under Part I of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
From the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of
the Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
For payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
-9-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April
15 and October 15, the first installment to be payable on the thirteenth (13th)
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount and the last installment to be payable on the forty-fifth (45th) Interest
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-thirty-third (1/33rd)
of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining
outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after
October 15, 2041, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount
of all such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (1) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"ACCES Program" means Program de Access con Cali dad a la Education
Superior, the Borrower's program on access to higher education with quality
established through COMPES (Conseco National de Political Economical y
Social) Document 3203/2002.
2. 
"ACCES Student Loan" means any of the loans to be provided by the Borrower
to an Eligible Student under the relevant Student Loan Agreement and included
under Part I of the Project.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Borrower's Legal Framework" means Law 1002, dated December 30, 2005,
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 30, 2005, governing
the creation and functioning of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Eligible HEI" means any institution providing Pregrado Degrees that meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
7. 
"Eligible Student" means a student who is eligible to benefit from an ACCES
Student Loan in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
9. 
"Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement between the Member Country and
the Bank providing for the guarantee of the Loan, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time.
10. 
"HEI" means any higher education institution in the Guarantor's territory.
1. 
"HE] Contract" means any contract to be entered into, or an existing contract to
be amended, between the Borrower and a HEI, including Eligible HEls,
acceptable to the Bank, to build a strategic alliance between the Borrower and a
given HEI to finance higher education through the provision of Student Loans.
-11-
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means, a social group of people with a distinct social and
cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the
development process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following
characteristics: (1) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural
resources in the these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different
from the national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political
institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence oriented production.
13. 
"IPP" means the Borrower's indigenous peoples plan for the Project, dated
December 20, 2013, that details an action plan to assist Indigenous Peoples, afro-
Colombians, roam and victims of violence to overcome barriers to access to
tertiary education, including through the institutional strengthening of HEls
where these populations have a strong presence, as said plan may be updated
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
14. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, dated March 4, 2014,
referred to in Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Pregrado Degree" means a university undergraduate degree or a degree from a
technological 
institution or a professional technical institution all in the
Guarantor's territory.
16. 
"Program" means the program designed to support the Borrower's strategy to
strengthen its student loan program for tertiary education, which program is set
forth in the letter dated December 13, 2007 (recorded under ACCES UCP 4907-
07), from the Borrower to the Bank (as said terms are defined herein).
17. 
"Scorecard" means a summary report, included in the HEI Contract, containing a
series of indicators designed to monitor factors key to the Borrower's
sustainability 
and the 
Eligible 
HEI's 
quality 
and 
internal 
efficiency
improvements.
18. 
"SOP" means series of projects.
19. 
"Sustainability Fund" means the Borrower's fund, created by the Borrower's
Accord (Cuero de Junta Directive) No. 10, dated May 19, 2009, as the same has
been amended to the date of this Agreement, to which semiannual contributions
are made by HEIs as specified in the HEI Contracts.
20. 
"Student Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements (Pagane y Carat de
Instructions) referred to in Section I.C. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-12-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.09 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.09. Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system and prepare financial statements ("Financial Statements") in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the
Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect its operations, resources and
expenditures, and including those related to the Project."
2. 
The definition of the term "Financial Statements" in paragraph 43 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions is modified to read:
"'Financial Statements' means the financial statements referred to in Section
5.09."
-13-
