OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8546-GD
Loan Agreement
(Second Programmatic Resilience Building Development Policy Loan)
between
GRENADA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 6p,r( 3, 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated " 
1,, 3o, 2015, entered into between GRENADA ("Borrower)
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the
Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower
and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million United States Dollars (US
$5,000,000).
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%).
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IHl -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or
a significant part of it, will be carried out.
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower to
reverse any action or policy under the Program including any action listed
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
(b) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and all conditions precedent
to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Financial Complex
The Carenage
St. George's
GRENADA
Facsimile:
1473-440-4115
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
GRENADA
By 
",
Authorized Repres 
tative
Title: 
-C 
S 
' ("0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Repre entative
Name: k f; 1 keM,f 
Title: 
r" .
If-e J -iChv
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Pro2ram
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program include the following:
1 .
The Borrower's Tourism Authority has instituted a new regulatory framework for
the tourism sector in accordance with the Grenada Tourism Authority Act No. 42
of 2013, as evidenced by: (a) the Ministry of Tourism, Civil Aviation and Culture's
letter dated May 13, 2015, confirming that the Cabinet has approved the
"Licensing Fee Structure" in accordance with GTA Act 2013, through Cabinet
conclusion No. 661 dated April 27, 2015; and (b) the Ministry of Tourism, Civil
Aviation and Culture's letter dated August 17, 2015, confirming that the Cabinet
has approved: (i) the "Declaration of Tourism Enterprise Order 2015"; (ii) the
"Tourism and Beach Vending Regulations 2015"; and (iii) the "Grenada Tourism
Authority (Accommodation and Tourism Enterprise) Regulations 2015" through
Cabinet conclusion No. 1182 dated July 27, 2015.
2. 
The Borrower has commenced commercialization of selected state-owned estates
by entering into two commercial agreements with private entities, dated September
11, 2014 and November 4, 2014, respectively, each for the commercial use of state-
owned agricultural estates in the agribusiness sector.
3. 
The Borrower's Cabinet has approved a strategic plan to strengthen tourism and
agribusiness linkages by transforming the Borrower's Marketing and National
Importing Board (MNIB) into a service provider of information on markets,
product quality and standards, as evidenced by the Ministry of Finance and
Energy's letter dated December 10, 2014, confirming that the Cabinet has
approved the "MNIB Strategic Plan" through Cabinet conclusion No. 1762 dated
Nov 24, 2014.
4. 
The Borrower's Cabinet has approved a policy framework with clear guiding
principles and processes for identifying public private partnerships (PPPs) and set
out institutional responsibilities for developing a PPP pipeline and implementing
PPP projects, as evidenced by the Ministry of Finance and Energy's Memorandum
dated March 18, 2015, confirming that the Cabinet has approved the "PPP Policy
Framework" through Cabinet conclusion No. 348, dated March 2, 2015.
5. 
The Borrower's Parliament has enacted the Public Procurement and Disposal of
Public Property Act No. 39 of 2014, as published in the Borrower's Government
Gazette, dated September 26, 2014, consistent with international best practices.
-6-
6. 
The Borrower's Cabinet has approved a phase out plan to improve the targeting of
beneficiaries of the Support for Education, Empowerment, and Development
(SEED) program, as evidenced by the Ministry of Finance and Energy's letter
dated August 17, 2015, confirming that the Cabinet has approved the "Phase-Out
Plan for the beneficiaries of the SEED Programme" through Cabinet conclusion
No. 1254 dated August 4, 2015.
7. 
The Borrower's Parliament has enacted the Banking Act No. 20 of 2015 as
published in the Borrower's Government Gazette on July 17, 2015 to strengthen
bank regulation, supervision and resolution.
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocations 
Allocated
(expressed in US$}
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
4,987,500
(2) Front end Fee 
12,500
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
-7-
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is November 30, 2016.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2026
Through September 15, 2044 
2.56%
On March 15, 2045 
2.72%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.
-9-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
-11-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
Association in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time, and including all appendices,
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
3. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section H of this Appendix.
4. 
"Marketing and National Importing Board" or "MNIB" means the Borrower's
marketing and national importing board, established pursuant to the Marketing and
National Importing Board Act, Chapter 183 of the Laws of Grenada.
5. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated September 14, 2015, from the Borrower to the Bank,
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
6. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Support for Education, Empowerment and Development" or "SEED" means the
Borrower's program for reducing poverty and increasing investment in human
capital among the poor and vulnerable in Grenada.
-12-
8. 
"Tourism Authority" means the Borrower's tourism authority, established
pursuant to the Grenada Tourism Authority Act No. 42 of 2013.
Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
-13-
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-14-
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after
the word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
