OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8523-AM
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Lifeline Road Network Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 
s/ 
/ 9 
2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8523-AM
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
W
1U3 g 5 
, 2015, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the
Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower, through MOTC and its TPIU, with the assistance of ARD, shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
-3-
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
that the Operational Manual is updated and adopted by the Borrower,
through MOTC, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
that the Borrower, through MOTC, appoints an environmental safeguard
specialist and a social safeguards specialist, with qualifications and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
I Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
+37411800132
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By 
(
Authorized Representative
Name: Q 
k 
kbo hat 
la
Title: pgffi';s2 {rI-hwct
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
//Z 
/~uthori 
zed a3'esentati v
Name: 
kAe.e4 
.- 
ILE'
Title: 
CoUMv-N 
V MA AA
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access of rural communities to markets
and services through the upgrading of selected Lifeline Roads, and to strengthen the
capacity of the MOTC to manage the Lifeline Road Network.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Lifeline Road Improvement
(a) 
Carrying out of improvement works for approximately 360 kilometers of
selected roads within the Lifeline Road Network.
(b) 
(i) Carrying out, on a pilot basis, rehabilitation and routine maintenance
works of approximately 23.4 kilometers of selected segments of the Lifeline Road
Network, under the terms of a Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract; and (ii)
carrying out rehabilitation and routine maintenance works of approximately 23
kilometers of selected segments of the Lifeline Road Network, under the terms of
two Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contracts.
(c) 
Carrying out of detailed design studies, related technical supervision
activities and independent technical audits for rehabilitation activities under the
Project.
(d) 
Carrying out of road safety improvement works, including: (i) Black Spots
improvements; (ii) works associated with the implementation of the Safe Villages
in all roads rehabilitated under the Project; and (iii) the acquisition and installation
of road signs.
(e) 
If an Eligible Emergency has occurred and the requirements set forth in
this Agreement have been met, provide support to respond to an Eligible
Emergency through the design and carrying out of selected roads sector
investments within the Borrower's territory.
Part 2: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Provision of support for Project coordination and implementation through:
(i) the financing of Operating Costs required for Project administration and
monitoring; and (ii) the carrying out of Project financial audits.
(b) 
(i) Acquisition of a road asset management system database, including
installation and training to ARD personnel for the use of said database, (ii)
acquisition of road survey equipment for surveying road conditions and traffic;
(iii) acquisition of road laboratory equipment for testing the quality of works
-6-
carried out under the Project; and (iv) carrying out Lifeline Road Network data
collection for the road asset management system.
(c) 
Carrying out of a road safety program, including inter alia, (i) the detailed
design for carrying out of Black Spots improvement works; (ii) the provision of
technical assistance and training programs for ARD personnel; (iii) the carrying
out of road safety educational practices in Safe Villages schools, (iv) the carrying
out of road safety campaigns linked to the Lifeline Road Network; (v) the
development of a road safety action plan; and (vi) the implementation of selected
activities of the action plan developed under Part 2(c)(v) of the Project.
(d) 
Provision of technical assistance for, inter alia, the: (i) carrying out of a
feasibility study for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads using a
performance-based approach, including the identification of at least one road
section ; (ii) carrying out of studies on social monitoring and evaluation related to
the Project, as well as road sector financial sustainability; (iii) provision of training
to MOTC staff and local contractors on the new concepts introduced by the Project,
including design and implementation of multi-year performance based contracts,
efficient design standards, and planning and contract monitoring for MOTC and
ARD staff; (iv) carrying out of technical studies and detailed designs required for
the preparation of potential future investments in the road sector; (v) preparing a
strategic development plan for the Lifeline Road Network; and (vi) enhancing
disaster risk preparedness for the road sector.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project the TPIU within
MOTC, 
responsible 
for the management, 
coordination, 
implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. TPIU shall have a structure,
responsibilities, and key staff with functions, experience, responsibilities,
qualifications and financing acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of standards recommended by the European
committee for standardization on design and construction of roads and highways
(in addition to the national standards) in the design and construction of road works
under the Project.
B. 
Operational Manual
1 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
update and adopt the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include the rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including the following: (i)
the detailed description of Project implementation activities and the
detailed institutional arrangements of the Project; (ii) criteria for selecting
the road sections to be rehabilitated and/or maintained under the Project,
based on economic return or/and population being served; (iii) guidelines
to follow in case of unexpected findings of objects with possible cultural
or archeological value; (iv) the Project administrative, accounting,
auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow aspects in relation
thereto), procurement and disbursement procedures; (v) the monitoring
indicators for the Project; and (vi) the ESMF and the RPF. In the event
that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail; and
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual.
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
-8-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MOTC, implement the Project in accordance with:
(a) 
the ESMF, and thereafter implement the pertinent EMPs, in accordance
with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, ensuring that civil
works will not commence in any road section unless the EMP for the
respective section of the road has been prepared by the Borrower,
disclosed, consulted and approved by the Bank; and
(b) 
the RPF, and if Resettlement is foreseen for specific road sections,
thereafter implement the pertinent resettlement action plan or abbreviated
plan, as the case may be, all in accordance with their terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, ensuring that civil works will not commence in
specific road section unless the pertinent resettlement action plan or
abbreviated plan for the respective section of the road has been prepared,
disclosed, consulted and approved by the Bank, and implemented by the
Borrower.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MOTC, ensure that: (i) the terms of reference for any
consultancy required under Parts 2(c) and 2(d) of the Project shall be satisfactory
to the Bank following its review thereof; and (ii) to that end, such terms of
reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank' Safeguards Policies
then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance,
including the public disclosure and consultation of the resulting environmental and
social impact assessments in accordance with the Bank's Safeguard Policies.
E. 
Implementation arrangements for Part 1(e) of the Project
1 .
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part 1(e) of the Project after the
occurrence of an Eligible Emergency, and prior to the carrying out any activities
under said Part of the Project, the Borrower shall take the following measures:
(a) 
determine that an Eligible Emergency has occurred and the Bank has
agreed with said determination;
(b) 
furnish to the Bank a list of proposed road sector investments and a request
to finance the Eligible Expenditures under Category (2) in order to respond
to said Eligible Emergency;
-9-
(c) 
update and adopt the Operational Manual as needed, defining the scope of
activities, implementation arrangements, procurement and disbursement
arrangements under Part 1(e) of the Project; and
(iv) 
prepare, disclose and consult all safeguards instruments required for said
activities, in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D of this
Agreement;
all under terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Mid-term Evaluation
1 .
The Borrower, through MOTC, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one (a) month after the end of the
period covered by such report.
2. 
By December 1, 2015, or such other date acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower,
through MOTC, shall carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the
implementation of activities under the Project (Mid-term Review). The Mid-term
Review shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
Following such Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently
to take any corrective action as shall be recommended by the Bank.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MOTC, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOTC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MOTC, shall have the Financial Statements of the Project
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of
one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
such period.
-10-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional
provisions:
(i) 
entities in which the Borrower owns a majority shareholding shall
not be invited to participate in tenders unless they are, and can be
shown to be, legally and financially autonomous and operate
under commercial law;
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large and complex works
projects;
(iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past
contract performance., financial, 
managerial 
and technical
capabilities of bidders. Post-qualification shall only be conducted
on the lowest evaluated responsive bidder;
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations;
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening;
(vi) 
bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions
of clause 2.61 - 2.64 of the Procurement Guidelines are met;
(vii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms
or expressed as a pass/fail criteria;
(viii) 
advance 
Bank's approval 
is required for any substantial
modifications 
in 
the 
contract 
scope/conditions 
during
implementation; and
(ix) 
the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents, satisfactory
to the Bank;
(b) 
Shopping;
(c) 
Direct Contracting; and
(d) 
Force Account
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (j) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
-12-
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Procurement of Emergency Expenditures under the IRM Part of the Project
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section, the eligible
expenditures required under Part 1(e) of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the procurement methods and procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article ll of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
works, 
non- 
39,900,000 
80 %
consulting 
services,
consultants' 
services,
Operating 
Costs 
and
Training under the Project
(except for Parts 1(e) and
2(b)(i) of the Project)
(2) 
Goods, works, 
non- 
0 
100%
consulting 
services,
consultants' 
services and
Operating Costs under Part
1(e) of the Project
-13-
(3) Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40000000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) 
under Category (2) until the Borrower has: (i) determined that an Eligible
Emergency has occurred and the Bank has agreed with said determination;
(ii) furnished to the Bank a list of proposed road sector investments and a
request to finance the eligible expenditures under Category (2) in order to
respond to said Eligible Emergency, (iii) updated and adopted the
Operational Manual as needed, defining the scope of activities,
implementation 
arrangements, 
procurement 
and 
disbursement
arrangements under Part 1(e) of the Project; (iv) prepared, disclosed and
consulted all safeguards instruments required for said activities, in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.C of this Agreement, all in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2019.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure, until completion of the Project, that adequate budgetary
resources are allocated and made available for the maintenance of those sections
of the Lifeline Road Network rehabilitated under the Project
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2030
through November 15, 2039 
4.76%
On May 15, 2040 
4.8%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
-15-
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"ARD" means the Armenian Roads Directorate, a Borrower non-commercial
organization, established by the Borrower's Decree No. 1720-N of December 2,
2004, responsible for maintaining interstate and republican main roads, or any
successor thereto.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational safeguard policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, or such policies and procedures
then in force.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Black Spots" means accident-prone locations along any given road.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Eligible Emergency" means an event that has caused, or is likely to imminently
cause, a major adverse economic and/or social impact to the Borrower, associated
with a natural or man-made crisis or disaster.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF" means the
Borrower's framework acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the
public on May 20, 2015, which contains guidelines for undertaking site-specific
environmental and social measures for individual investments under the Project,
including: (i) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental and social
conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental and social impacts and
risks resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (ii) guidelines for the carrying
out of environmental assessments 
and the preparation of environmental
management plans, when applicable; (iii) recommendation of mitigation measures
for each negative impact identified; (iv) measures for enhancing each identified
positive impact; and (v) guidelines for the preparation of environmental and social
monitoring plans for tracking the application of the mitigation measures, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
9. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means: any of the Borrower's site-
specific plans derived from the ESMF that have been prepared and will be prepared
-17-
during the implementation of the Project previous to the commencement of any
civil works under the Project, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
I1. 
"Lifeline Road" means any road within the Lifeline Road Network, collectively
referred to as "Lifeline Roads".
12. 
"Lifeline Road Network" means a priority network comprised of about 4,000
kilometers comprised mainly by local roads and as well as republican roads,
connecting rural communities to at least one interstate road.
13. 
"Mid-term Review" means the review of the implementation of activities under
the Project referred to in Section II.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"MOTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Communication.
15. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable operational costs (which would not have
been incurred absent the Project), incurred by the TPIU related to Project
implementation, including inter alia, the costs of communication, supplies,
printing 
and 
publications, 
vehicle 
operation 
and 
maintenance, 
office
refurbishment, maintenance and utilities, purchase and maintenance of office
equipment and furniture and facilities, local and international travel (including
accommodations, transportation costs and per diem), bank charges, staff salaries
(including associated taxes, and charges for insurance, but excluding salaries of
civil servants), logistics services, and such other expenditures as may be agreed
upon by the Bank.
16. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual prepared by the Borrower dated July 4,
2014 and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of
the Bank.
17. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Original Project
between the Borrower and the Bank, dated February 11, 2013, as amended.
18. 
"Original Project" means the project set forth in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
June 22, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1. 18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
-18-
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract" means a multi-year contract entered
into by the Borrower through MOTC with a private sector contractor, which
contract obligates said private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road
rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single package.
22. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently.
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the document prepared by the
Borrower and published and available to the public on May 20, 2015, and outlining
general 
implementation procedures, 
mitigation measures 
and 
monitoring
procedures for Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for the
preparation and implementation of resettlement action plans, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
24. 
"Safe Villages" means the program that combines traffic calming measures,
footway construction and an education program in schools located in villages near
new improved roads, in order to prevent road accidents, especially those involving
vulnerable road users such as pedestrians, children and the elderly.
25. 
"TPIU" means the Transport Project Implementation unit, a state institution within
MOTC established by the Borrower's Decree No. 1930-N of December 28, 2006
and referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement.
26. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs, as shall have been approved by the Bank,
for training and workshops conducted under the Project, including tuition, travel
and subsistence costs for training and workshop participants, costs associated with
securing the services of trainers and workshop speakers, rental of training and
workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of training and workshop
materials, and other costs directly related to training course and workshop
preparation and implementation (but excluding goods and consultants' services).
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
-19-
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
