OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8540-DO
Loan Agreement
(Support to the National Education Pact Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated: October 8, 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated October 
8, 
2015, 
between 
DOMINICAN 
REPUBLIC
("Borrower") and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars (USD
50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MINERD, with the participation
of IDEICE, INAIPI, INABIE, INAFOCAM, 
INEFI and ISFODOSU, in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
-2-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
National Education Pact has been amended, suspended, abrogated, or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the execution of the
Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank's
approval of the Loan which expires on March 30, 2017.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
For the purposes of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions, the Borrower's
Representative who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions of this
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, through exchange of letters (unless
otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Hacienda de la Rep6blica Dominicana
Av. M6xico 45, Gazcue
Santo Domingo de Guzman, Distrito Nacional
Republica Dominicana
Facsimile:
809-688-8838
-3-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as of the day and year first
above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By
Name: Simon Lizardo Mezquita
Title: Minister of Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
F'.4TFprsentativ~
Name: McDonald P. Benjamin
Title: Country Manaaer
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower's capacity to: (i) recruit
and train primary and secondary school teachers; (ii) assess student learning in primary and
secondary education; (iii) evaluate the quality of service provided by Public Early
Childhood Development Center;, and (iv) enhance the process for decentralizing public
school management.
The Project consists of the provision of financing of EEPs to support the
implementation of the National Education Pact, as set forth in the following parts:
Part 1. Improving Capacity to Recruit and Train Primary and Secondary School Teachers
Carry out a comprehensive revision of MINERD's primary and secondary school
teacher recruitment and training activities based on professional standards for teachers set
forth in the POM, with a focus on:
(a) 
Pre-service training through, inter alia: (i) the revision of ISFODOSU
teaching degree curricula and competence profiles; (ii) the creation of
specialized degrees for secondary school teachers; (iii) the implementation
of a quality assurance and monitoring system for ISFODOSU; (iv) the
implementation of a scholarship program to attract high-performing
secondary 
students to 
ISFODOSU 
pre-service 
degrees; 
(v) 
the
implementation of a revised remedial program for admitted students with
skill gaps; and (vi) the revision of the career structure and promotion
schemes of ISFODOSU teachers.
(b) 
Human resources management, including, inter alia: (i) the design and
implementation of a competitive induction exam and selection process for
public school teachers, administrators and staff; (ii) the launch of an online
teacher recruitment system; and (iii) the launch of web-enabled
management information systems.
(c) 
The teaching career, through supporting, inter alia, the design, and
adoption of: (i) guidelines for the teaching career; (ii) a revised teacher
evaluation 
based 
on international 
best practices; 
and 
(iii) 
the
implementation of key aspects of the teacher career, including, inter alia,
a certification system.
(d) 
In-service training, through supporting, inter alia: (i) the development and
piloting of in-service training programs for current teachers through
-5-
INAFOCAM; (ii) the revision of guidelines and evaluation of existing in-
service programs; (iii) institutional capacity strengthening for the
INAFOCAM evaluation office; and (iv) an impact evaluation of
INAFOCAM in-service programs with randomized assignment.
Part 2. Improving Capacity to Assess Student Learning in Primary and Secondary
Education
Support the strengthening of student assessment system through:
(a) 
Development and implementation of a national strategy for pre-tertiary
student assessments.
(b) 
Participation in and dissemination of international assessments.
(c) 
Technical improvement of national student assessments.
(d) 
Design and implementation of a system for dissemination of results and
use of assessment data.
(e) 
Development and implementation of a national assessment in early grades.
Part 3. Improving Capacity to Evaluate the Quality of Service Provided by Public Early
Childhood Development Centers
Support the organizational design and institutional strengthening of INAIPI,
through:
(a) 
Developing a strategic plan for INAIPI and quality standards systems for
Public Early Childhood Development Centers and personnel.
(b) 
Development and implementation of an information and communications
strategy to disseminate within the Public Early Childhood Development
Centers standards of quality service delivery, public understanding of the
QEC Program, and improve parenting practices.
-6-
Part 4. Improving Capacity to Enhance the Process for Decentralizing Public School
Management
Support the decentralization of MINERD's functions and resources through:
(a) 
Supporting the increase of established School Management Committees in
public schools through Transfers to SMCs.
(b) 
Supporting the review of regulations and processes to: (i) increase
efficiency in establishing SMCs; and (ii) streamline SMC account opening
procedures.
(c) 
Implementation of a functional expenditure system for SMCs.
(d) 
Improving the training of SMCs to develop school improvement plans and
annual work plans.
(e) 
Improving financial and procurement practices at the school level.
(f) 
Revising school auditing guidelines and procedures.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the
Project in MINERD, and the responsibility for coordination, monitoring and
evaluation in OCI. To this end, the Borrower, shall maintain during the
implementation of the Project, OCI with powers, functions, capacity, staffing,
terms of reference, and resources satisfactory to the Bank to fulfill its respective
functions under the Project, as set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINERD, shall establish not later than February 28, 2016,
and thereafter maintain, a Project Steering Committee with composition
(consisting of, inter alia: (i) a representative of OCI; (ii) a representative of the
MINERD's Vice-Ministry of Planning; (iii) a representative of the MINERD's
Vice-Ministry of Technical and Pedagogical Services; and (iv) a representative of
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance), functions and responsibilities, acceptable to
the Bank. The Steering Committee's responsibilities shall include, inter alia: (i)
providing strategic guidance to MINERD for overall Project implementation; (ii)
regularly reviewing Project monitoring and evaluation data to determine progress
and proposing adjustments to MINERD to ensure satisfactory achievement of the
Project objective; (iii) monitoring MINERD's sufficient budgetary allocation for
the carrying out the audit and verification obligations under the Project in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) overseeing the reporting, documentation and
submission of DLI achievement, and the timely submission of withdrawal
applications; and (v) overseeing the coordination of technical and decentralized
units of MINERD and respective key stakeholders on key policy issues related to
Project implementation.
3. 
No later than six (6) months from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause its
Ministry of Finance and MINERD to enter into an inter-institutional agreement,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia
(i) the obligation of the Borrower to allocate sufficient resources from the
Borrower's Budget to MINERD as required to enable MINERD to carry out the
Project; and (ii) the obligation of MINERD to maintain the OCI under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, and allocate budget resources for the carrying
out of the Borrower's reporting obligations under this Agreement.
-8-
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
Section I.A. of this Schedule, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower, through MINERD, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
terms of the Project Operations Manual, which shall include, inter alia:
(i) 
the detailed description of Project implementation activities, their
sequencing, timetable, benchmarks and the institutional arrangements of
the Project;
(ii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and
disbursement procedures (including all pertinent standard documents and
model contracts in relation thereto);
(iii) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project;
(iv) 
arrangements for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of Project
implementation, 
including 
Verification Protocols to confirm DLI
achievement;
(v) 
the roles and responsibilities of the entities involved in Project
implementation;
(vi) 
the indicators to evaluate the performance of the Project;
(vii) 
the criteria for the preparation of Customized Statements of Expenditures
Reports; and
(viii) 
the SMCs Operations Manual.
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or otherwise fail to enforce
the Project Operations Manual or any provision thereof.
3. 
In the case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operations Manual and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
-9-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through MINERD, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MINERD, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project
Report after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MINERD, shall have its Financial Statements in respect of
the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the end of
such period.
C. 
Independent Performance Audit
1. 
No later than three months prior to the submittal of a withdrawal request as set
forth in Section IV below, the Borrower, through MINERD, shall engage, under
terms of reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, a Project Audit
-10-
Consultant, for purposes of carrying out the Independent Performance Audit in
respect of DLIs 16 and 20, set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINERD, shall ensure independent monitoring and
evaluation of the Project, through the carrying out of an Independent Performance
Audit certifying the extent to which, in respect of DLIs 16, and 20: (a) Eligible
Expenditures under the Project have been incurred in compliance with the
arrangements provided for in this Agreement, and in the Operations Manual; (b)
the Disbursement-Linked Indicators have been met; and (c) the Additional
Instructions have been adhered to by the Borrower.
3. 
No later than November I of each calendar year during Project implementation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a complete Independent Performance Audit
Report including all the findings and results from the Independent Performance
Audit, as well as the certifications from the Project Audit Consultant of the degree
of achievement of the Disbursement Linked Indicators.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-
consulting services financed under the SMC Transfers: (a) Shopping; and (b)
Direct Contracting.
-11-
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
All contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions) (the "Additional Instructions"), to finance Eligible
Expenditures under EEPs, as measured against specific DLIs, all as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
to be financed
(1) Payments for EEPs 
49,875,000 
100% up to the amount of the
Loan allocated to each DLI,
as set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
(2) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
-12-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed ten million Dollars
(USD 10,000,000) may be made for payments made up to twelve (12)
months prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) 
for any DLI, until and unless the Borrower has furnished evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that said DLI has been achieved.
2. 
With respect to withdrawals under Category 1, and as provided under paragraph
B. 1(b) of this Section, payments shall be made in November of, or a soon as
practicable thereafter in, each year during Project implementation upon timely
submittal by the Borrower of a withdrawal request acceptable to the Bank and
pursuant to the Additional Instructions. Such withdrawal request shall include
evidence in form and substance acceptable to the Bank of: (i) EEPs incurred, as
presented in a Customized Statement of Expenditures Report; and (ii) supporting
documentation confirming the Borrower's achievement of the respective DLI, as
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and as set forth in the Verification
Protocols. The Bank may accept withdrawal requests submitted pursuant to the
provisions of this section, in respect of any DLI, except Scalable DLIs, achieved
prior to the date by which such DLI is set to be achieved.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs B.1(b) and B.2 of this Section, if the
Bank is not satisfied that any DLI under Category (1) has been achieved by the
date by which the respective DLI is set to be achieved, as set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, the Bank may at any time, and by notice to the Borrower,
decide, in its sole discretion to:
(a) 
in respect of Scalable DLIs (DLIs 4, 8, 12, 16, 20):
(i) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the
unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to the said
Scalable DLI which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to
the degree of achievement of said Scalable DLI calculated as set
forth in the Verification Protocols;
-13-
(ii) 
authorize 
that the unwithdrawn 
amount 
by 
which the
corresponding disbursement for a partially achieved Scalable DLI
had been reduced, be carried forward to the immediately
subsequent withdrawal, pending further achievement of the
respective Scalable DLI; and/or
(iii) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated
to said Scalable DLI.
(b) 
in respect of any DLI which is not a Scalable DLI:
(i) 
withhold the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to
said DLI until the Bank is satisfied that said DLI has been fully
achieved; or
(ii) 
(1) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then
allocated to said DLI to any other DLI; and/or (2) cancel all or a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs B.1, B.2, and B.3 above, the Bank
shall not be required to make further disbursements if the Borrower shall have
failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time specified in Section II.C of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said Section.
5. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts withdrawn by
the Borrower under Category (1) was made: (i) for ineligible expenditures; or (ii)
not in compliance with the provisions of part B.2 of this Section, the Borrower
shall promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. The Bank shall cancel such refunded amount.
6. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2027
through August 15, 2039 
3.70%
On February 15, 2040 
3.80%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-15-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-16-
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement-Linked Indicators
Disbursement-Linked Indicators, by expected calendar year of completion (by October 15 of each year)
DLs eligible for partial achievement are marked "Scalable"
2015 
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019
DLI 8: ISFODOSU 
DLI 12: 
DLI 17: ISFODOSU
DLI 1: ISFODOSU's 
offers two new 
INAFOCAM and 
has started the
revised standardized 
DLI 5: Dissemination 
degrees for training 
ISFODOSU's annual 
implementation of its
entrance examination 
of professional 
secondary-level 
financial reports are 
own professional
Improving 
is applied to all its 
standards for teachers 
teachers 
prepared using 
development plan for
capacity to 
applicants 
started 
(Scalable) 
SIGEF 
its educators
recruit and train 
(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
(scalable) 
(Value: USD 2.375
primary and
secondary school 
(Value: USD 3.0 M) 
M)
teachers 
DLI 2: MINERD 
DLI 6: MINERD aligns 
DLI 13: 20% of 
DLI 18:
competitive entrance 
entrance 
am 
career and evaluation 
teaphers have been 
in-service training
exam to hire teachers 
Oposiciun) 
ith 
system (based on 
evaluated using the 
programs based on
(Concurso de 
U-oiin ih 
standards) has been 
eautdsighe 
results from
(on 
professional standards 
adopted by MINERD 
teacher career and 
assessments and/or
(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
fValue 
chsD25M 
(Value: UJSD 2.5 M) 
eautosyem 
impact evaluations
(Value: USD 2.5 M)(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
(Value: USD 2.5 M)
DLI 19: MINERD's
DLI 10: MINERD 
DLI 14: MINERD 
Student Assessment
Improving 
DLI 7: The 
pilots, and based upon 
administers a student 
Directorate staff have
capacity to 
implementation of the 
the results of the pilot, 
assessment for the 
received training on
assess student 
DLI 3: PISA 2015 
Student assessment 
revises then 
first cycle of primary 
sampling, item
learning in 
applied by MINERD 
strategy has started 
dissemination 
e 
on 
dsig, te
primary and 
(Value: USD 3.0 M) 
component of the 
education 
design, database
ep a on 
(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
Student ssessment 
(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
statistical software
(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
(Value: USD 2.5 M)
DLI 15: Pilot 
DLI 20: 50% of
Improing tassessment for Public 
functioning Public
evaluate the 
Early Childhood 
Early Childhood
quality ofservice 
Development Centers 
Development Centers
provision Public 
carried out 
are assessed for
Early Childhood 
(Value: USD 2.5 M) 
quality standards
Development 
(Scalable)
Centers 
(Value: USD 2.5 M)
DLI 4: 250 additional 
DLI 11: New 
DLI 16: 1,750 School
Improving 
School Management 
functional spending 
Management
capacity to 
Committees (Juntas de 
guidelines for School 
Mmitteent
enhance te 
Centro) receive 
Management 
de Centro) are fully
decentralized 
Transfers to SMCs. 
Commees 
ab 
functional
public school 
(Scalable) 
MINERD 
(Scalable)
management 
(Value: USD 2.0 M) 
(Value: USD 2.0 M) 
(Value: USD 2.5 M)
Estimated 
10 mill. 
7.5 mill. 
9.5 mill. 
13 mill. 
9.875 mill
disbursementI
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Additional Instructions" means the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, as such
Additional Instructions may be revised from time to time by the Bank and
delivered to the Borrower.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Borrower's Budget" means the Borrower's annual budget, approved by the
Borrower's Parliament, from time to time.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Customized Statement of Expenditures Report" means any report prepared by the
Borrower in accordance with the Additional Instructions and set forth in the Project
Operations Manual and referred to in Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement on the spending status of the EEPs in relation to the Borrower's
Budget.
6. 
"Disbursement-Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means an indicator, set forth in
Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the achievement of which is a condition for
disbursement of Loan Proceeds, pursuant to Section IV.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Education Law" means the Borrower's Law 66-97, dated April 9, 1997, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
8. 
"Eligible Expenditure Programs" or "EEPs" means a set of defined expenditures
within the Borrower's Budget for financing of (a) remuneration of staff of
ISFODOSU, INAFOCAM, IDEICE, INABIE, and INEFI; (b) fuel and lubricants
for ISFODOSU's vehicles used in respect of the Project; and (c) Transfers to
SMCs.
-18-
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section 11 of this Appendix.
10. 
"IDEICE" means Instituto Dominicano de Evaluaci6n e Investigaci6n de la
Calidad Educativa, the Dominican Institute of Research and Evaluation,
established as a decentralized entity of MINERD, pursuant to Order 03-2008 of
the National Education Council and pursuant to Article 78 of the Education Law,
or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
11. 
"INABIE" means Instituto Nacional de Bienestar Estudiantil, the Borrower's
National Student Well-being Institute, established as a decentralized entity of
MINERD, pursuant to Article 177 of the Education Law, or any successor thereto
satisfactory to the Bank.
12. 
"INAFOCAM" means Instituto Nacional de Formaci6n y Capacitaci6n del
Magisterio, the National Institute of Education and Training of Teachers,
established as a decentralized entity of MINERD, pursuant to Article 129 of the
Education Law, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
13. 
"INAIPI" means Instituto Nacional de Atencidn Integral a la Primera Infancia,
the National Institute of Comprehensive Care for Early Childhood, established as
a decentralized entity of MINERD, pursuant to Article 7 of the Borrower's Decree
102-13, dated April 12, 2013, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
14. 
"Independent Performance Audit" means the annual audit carried out by the
Project Audit Consultant, referred to in Section II.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
15. 
"Independent Performance Audit Report" means the report by the Project Audit
Consultant integrating the results of the Independent Performance Audit, to be
prepared and furnished to the Bank pursuant to Section II.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
16. 
"INEFI" means Instituto Nacional de Educaci6n Fisica, the Borrower' National
Physical Education Institute, established as a decentralized entity of MINERD,
pursuant to the Borrower's Law 165-07, dated July 4, 2007, which modified Law
33-98, dated January 16, 1998, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
-19-
17. 
"ISFODOSU" means Instituto de Formaci6n Docente Salomd Urefia, the
Borrower's 
Salom6 Urefia Teacher Training Institute, 
established 
as a
decentralized entity of MINERD, pursuant to Decree 427-00, dated August 15,
2000, and Decree 571-03, dated June 16, 2003, or any successor thereto
satisfactory to the Bank.
18. 
"MINERD" means Ministerio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of
Education, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
19. 
"National Education Pact" means the Pacto Nacional Para la Reforma Educativa
en la Republica Dominicana (2014-2030), dated April 1, 2014, set forth pursuant
to the Borrower's National Development Strategy 2030 (Law 1-12), and Decree
228-13, a document reflecting a broad-based consensus among the Borrower's
key stakeholders, and aimed at transforming the education system in the
Borrower's territory.
20. 
"OCI" means Oficina de Cooperaci6n Internacional, the MINERD's International
Cooperation Office, responsible for coordinating and overseeing the Borrower's
internationally funded projects in the education sector, or any successor thereto
satisfactory to the Bank.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011, as revised in July 2014.
22. 
"Project Audit Consultant" means an independent consultant in charge of carrying
out the Independent Performance Audit.
23. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the manual referred in Section I.B
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the operational and administrative
responsibilities, procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project.
24. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, tasked with overall guidance and coordination
oversight of the Project.
25. 
"Public Early Childhood Development Centers" means Centros de Atenci6n
Integral para la Primera Infancia (Estancias Infantiles), the Borrower's centers,
established and functioning under the QEC Program.
-20-
26. 
"QEC Program" means Sistema Nacional de Protecci6n a la Primera Infancia,
also referred to as Quisqueya Empieza Contigo, the Borrower's program for the
provision of early childhood development services as set forth in the Borrower's
Decree 102-13, dated April 12, 2013, or a successor program satisfactory to the
Bank.
27. 
"Scalable DLIs" means DLIs 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20, which, in case of non-
achievement, or partial achievement thereof, may be carried forward to a
subsequent withdrawal period, with the Bank's prior approval.
28. 
"School Management Committees" or "SMCs" means Juntas de Centro, as set
forth in Article 93 of the Borrower's Education Law.
29. 
"SMCs Operations Manual" means the Borrower's Manual de Operaci6n de
Juntas Escolares and the Instructivo para el Manejo de Fondos Transferidos a las
Juntas Regionales, de Distrito y Centro Educativo, satisfactory to the Bank, and
incorporated in the Project Operations Manual.
30. 
"Transfers to SMCs" means periodic transfers of budgetary funds by MINERD to
the account of an SMC for the purposes of supporting the development of schools,
managing of human, physical, and financial resources, and promoting community
participation in school activities and decisions, all in accordance with the SMCs
Operations Manual, and the Borrower's applicable laws and regulations.
31. 
"Verification Protocols" means the set of protocols setting forth the actions and
mechanisms required for verification of DLIs, agreed with the Bank and included
in the Project Operations Manual, and referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
-21-
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
-22-
