OFFICIAL
00CUJMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8468-PE
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Optimization of Lima Water and Sewerage Systems
Project - Optimizacidn de Sistemas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado, Sectorizaci6n,
Rehabilitacidn de Redes y Actualizacidn de Catastro - Area de Influencia Planta
Huachipa - Area de Drenaje Oquendo, Sinchi Roca, Puente Piedra y Sectores 84, 83,
85 y 212 - Lima)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
joy 
Z) 
} 
v 
4s 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
-14thG 
35, 2015, between the REPUBLIC OF PERU
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty-five million United States
Dollars (US$55,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower's Director of
Indebtedness and Public Treasury or any person whom any of them shall
designate in writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
-2-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through the Project Implementing Entity, shall ensure that the Project is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The updated Operational Manual has been adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on July 15, 2016.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Ministei of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower's Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or herself,
represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement
which are considered of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing
by such Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation
by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is considered to be
administrative and non-financial in nature.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima 1, Peri
Facsimile:
(511) 626-9921
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
Lq" 
- P6A0 
,as 
of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF P 
U
By
Authriz 
presentative
Name 
14LON&~O SeCbu9A 
q&&(
Title 
qNusT5A af Fcojoy 
4 FN 
C
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
Authorized Representati4eI
Name 
ALi-V-Q 
~
1 ~*'Z2
Title 
WC "TZA 
-) t6 n?- 
&
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency, continuity and
reliability of water supply and sanitation services in the Northern Service Area of Lima.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Rehabilitation of Water and Sewerage Networks in the Northern Service
Area of Lima
A. 
Rehabilitation of water and sewerage networks in the Second Northern Service
Area of Lima.
B. 
Improvement of the management of the rehabilitated networks referred to in
paragraph A above and reduction of water losses through: (i) the rehabilitation of
water reservoirs (concrete storage tanks) to increase storage capacity and
pressure stabilization; (ii) the replacement of house connections and installation
of domestic water meters; and (iii) the installation of bulk water meters and
valves to allow sectorization.
C. 
Carrying out of social interventions complementing the physical investments
referred to in paragraph A above, to facilitate the transition to a full pressure,
continuous and metered service, including, inter alia, the provision of guidance
to manage consumption, in particular through the use of in-house water saving
equipment.
Part 2. Improvement of SEDAPAL's Efficiency
Carrying out of studies and consultancies to provide decision-making tools to
SEDAPAL's management to improve the company's efficiency, all focusing on the
following areas:
A. 
Provision of support for the implementation of the GIS, including: (i) supporting
an evaluation of the cadaster to determine priority zones for cadastre updating
and the identification of a process for regular cadastre updating; and (ii)
supporting the training and institutional arrangements needed within SEDAPAL
to maximize the potential of the GIS.
B. 
Provision of support for the consolidation of SEDAPAL's supervisory control
and data acquisition information technology strategy, including supporting
SEDAPAL in the preparation of a supervisory control and data acquisition
master investment plan to ensure the compatibility of current and future
strategies.
-6-
C. 
Provision of support for the development of a new organizational model for
SEDAPAL, including the preparation of a strategic vision for SEDAPAL over
the medium and long-term, incorporating new management technologies,
aligning human resources management with modem practices, exploring options
for sustainable financing of capital investments and rearranging institutional
structure along functional lines.
D. 
Preparation of a strategy to efficiently meet user demand for water and sanitation
services, including: (i) an evaluation of the exogenous and endogenous factors
that affect demand for water supply and sanitation services; (ii) an estimation of
future demand trends backed by adequate sensitivity analysis; and (iii)
identification of priority actions to meet such demand as efficiently as possible.
Part 3. Project Management
Provision of support to SEDAPAL for Project management, including, inter alia:
A. 
Provision of financing for the additional staff required for Project management to
establish a monitoring and evaluation system and to undertake financial, physical
and procurement audits and/or reviews.
B. 
Provision of individual consultancies to strengthen the Project team on
procurement, financial management and communication.
C. 
Provision of training for strategic planning and selection of technical options to
allow full compliance with SEDAPAL's investment plans.
D. 
Provision of support to document the Project's processes and results and to
mainstream the lessons learned and the good practices.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement
I. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement 
between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity
("Subsidiary Agreement"), which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of the
Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms
of this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
terminate, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or
any of its provisions, if, in the opinion of both the Borrower and the Bank, any
such assignment, termination, amendment, abrogation, waiver or failure to
enforce may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower through Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take any actions necessary to assist, within the competencies
of each relevant entity, the Project Implementing Entity in complying with its
obligations under Section I.C. of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
A. 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity, shall maintain a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
B. 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish
to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
-8-
C. 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity shall have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity. 
The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services. 
All goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
4. 
Special Provisions.
(a) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set
forth in this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following
provisions shall govern all procurement of goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services with National Competitive Bidding procedures
under Section III. B.2 (a) of this Schedule:
(i) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process.
(ii) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the
bidding documents or used for the purpose of evaluation.
(iii) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and,
whenever appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be
quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
-9-
(iv) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National
Competitive Bidding without restriction and shall not be subject
to any unjustified requirement which will affect their ability to
bid such as, but not limited to, the requirement to authenticate
their bidding documents or any documentation related to such
bidding documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a prerequisite
of bidding.
(v) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
utilize standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any provision set forth
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions
shall govern all employment of consultants referred to in Section III.C of
this Schedule:
(i) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered
as a condition of participation in the selection process.
(ii) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate any
documentation related to their participation in the selection
process with Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, 
or any Peruvian authorities 
as a condition 
of
participation in said selection process.
(iii) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to use
standard requests for proposals and standard evaluation formats,
all satisfactory to the Bank.
(iv) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be
required to pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants' Association
that are different from those required for Peruvian consultants.
(v) 
No consultant, hired for the Project, at the time he or she is
carrying out his or her contractual obligations as a consultant,
may hold civil service office or any other position in any agency
of the Borrower (including the Project Implementing Entity), nor
shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into any such
office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting
services.
- 10-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works, and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
Non-Consultant Services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single-source Selection
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
- 11 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity, may withdraw the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the
General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower (including the "World 
Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works,
consultants' services,
Non-Consultant Services 
54,000,000 
100%
and Training for Part I of
the Project
(2) Goods, consultants'
services, Non-Consultant
Services and Training for 
0 
0
Part 2 of the Project
(3) Goods, consultants'
services, Non-Consultant
Services and Training for 
1,000,000 
100%
Part 3 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
55,000,000
-12-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after October 27, 2014 (but in no case more than one year prior to the
date of this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 
15 and October 
15,
beginning April 15, 2020 through April 
2.63%
15, 2038
On October 15, 2038 
2.69%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Sharp specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
- 14 -
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Section . Definitions
I. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on 
Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"EMP" or "Environmental Management Plan" means the Project Implementing
Entity's environmental management plan for the Original Project, updated to
include new geographical scope and published in the Bank's InfoShop on
October 27, 2014 and in the Project Implementing Entity's website on October
21, 2014 (http//www.sedapal.com.pe/estudio-impacto-ambiental), 
as such plan
may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank, which
includes, inter alia: (a) specific activities, budget and responsibilities to ensure
the implementation of measures to avoid, minimize and/or mitigate potential
direct and indirect environmental impacts associated with the Project; and (b)
procedures for screening any physical cultural resources in the Project area and
incorporating "chance find" procedures in the event that culturally significant
resources are discovered during Project implementation.
5. 
"Equipo de Proyectos Especiales" (formerly PROMESAL) means the unit
reporting to SEDAPAL's general manager and referred to in Section I.A. I of the
Project Agreement.
6. 
"GDI" means Gerencia de Desarrollo e Investigaci6n, the research and
development unit of the Project Implementing Entity, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
8. 
"GIS" means the Project Implementing Entity's geographical information
system.
9. 
"Involuntary Resettlement Framework" means the Project Implementing Entity's
involuntary resettlement framework for the Original Project and published in the
- 16 -
Bank's InfoShop and in the Project Implementing Entity's website on February
16, 2011, as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior
approval of the Bank, which includes, inter alia, specific guidelines and
procedures to be followed in the event that Resettlement is caused during Project
implementation.
10. 
"Non-Consultant Services" means services which are bid and contracted on the
basis of performance of a measurable physical output, such as drilling, mapping
and similar operations.
11. 
"Northern Service Area of Lima" means the following districts of the Borrower's
northern area of Lima: Anc6n, Bellavista, Callao, Carabayllo, Carmen de la
Legua, Comas, Independencia, La Perla, La Punta, Los Olivos, Puente Piedra,
Rimac, San Martin de Porres, Santa Rosa and Ventanilla.
12. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity pursuant to section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement for
the Original Project, and updated on November 12, 2014. Said manual shall
contain norms and procedures for Project implementation and supervision,
including: (a) the procedures and criteria to select the specific investments under
the Project, including the methodology to be followed to determine the exact
proportion of replacement and renovation of water and sewerage networks under
the Project; (b) the financial management, disbursement and procurement
procedures to be followed by the Project Implementing Entity during Project
implementation, including standard disbursement forms, standard bidding
documents and the Procurement Plan; (c) the terms of reference, functions and
responsibilities of the staff of the Project Implementing Entity in charge of
Project coordination, management and monitoring; (d) norms and procedures
related to engineering, communication, reporting and administrative matters; (e)
Project monitoring and results indicators; (f) the Environmental Management
Plan; and (g) the Involuntary Resettlement Framework.
13. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement in support of the
Optimization of Lima Water and Sewerage Systems Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated July 22, 2011 (Loan 8025-PE), as amended.
14. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original
Loan Agreement, as amended pursuant to this Agreement.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated October 17, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
- 17-
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "SEDAPAL" means Servicio de Agua Potable
y Alcantarillado de Lima, a State-owned private enterprise, established as a
Sociedad An6nima, for the purposes of providing water and sanitation services in
the areas of Lima, Callao and ascribed jurisdictions, pursuant to, and governed
by, the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation.
18. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the following: (a) the
Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 150 dated June 12, 1981 published in the
Borrower's official gazette (El Peruano) on June 15, 1981, which establishes
SEDAPAL; (b) the bylaws of SEDAPAL approved by the Borrower's Supreme
Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 048-81-VI dated December 15, 
1981 and
published in the Borrower's official gazette (El Peruano) on December 20, 1981;
together with SEDAPAL's Board of Directors resolutions No. 018-005-98 of
March 20, 1998 and the general shareholders meeting dated July 3, 1998; (c)
Corporations General Law No. 26887 of November 19, 1997 and published in
the Borrower's official gazette (El Peruano) on December 9, 1997; (d) the
Borrower's Sanitation Services Law (Ley General de Servicios de Saneamiento),
No. 26338, dated July 15, 1994 and published in the Borrower's official gazette
(El Peruano) on July 24, 1994, as amended by: (i) Law No. 28696, dated March
21, 2006 and published in the Borrower's official gazette (El Peruano) on March
22, 2006; and (ii) Law No. 28870, dated July 19, 2006 and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on August 12, 2006; (e) the sole text from the
Regulations to the Borrower's Sanitation Services Law, dated November 29,
2005 approved by the Borrower's Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 023-
2005-VIVIENDA, published in the Borrower's official gazette (El Peruano) on
December 1, 2005; and (f) all legal instruments applicable to state corporations
and water and sanitation entities in the Borrower's territory.
19. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
20. 
"Second Northern Service Area of Lima" means the following districts of the
Borrower's northern area of Lima: 
Comas, Carabayllo, Ventanilla, Puente
Piedra, Callao, San Martin de Porres and Los Olivos.
- 18-
21. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means Convenio de Traspaso de Recursos, the
agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to
which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project
Implementing Entity.
22. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of: (i) training materials and rental of
training facilities and equipment; (ii) tuition fees, travel and per-diem of trainers
and trainees; and (iii) any other expenses related to training (including study
tours and workshops) to be carried out under the Project.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
- 19 -
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if
any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
