OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8515-EC
Loan Agreement
(Sustainable Family Farming Modernization Project - Proyecto de Irrigación Tecn'ficada
para Pequeños y Medianos Productores y Productoras, como parte del Macro-Proyecto
"Fomento a la Producción Agrícola a través de la Implementación de Sistemas de Uso y
Aprovechamiento del Recurso Hídrico para el Desarrollo Rural y la Soberanía Alimentaria")
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8515-EC
Loan Agreement
(Sustainable Family Farming Modernization Project - Proyecto de Irrigacidn Tecnificada
para Pequehios y Medianos Productores y Productoras, como parte del Macro-Proyecto
"Fomento a la Producci6n Agricola a travis de la Implementacidn de Sistemas de Uso y
Aprovechamiento del Recurso Hidrico para el Desarrollo Ruraly la Soberania Alimentaria")
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
O T066t 
, 2015
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2061 
between the REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million United States Dollars ($80,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The intcrcst payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower, through MAGAP, declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement is June 1,
2016, or such later date as the Bank shall establish by notice to the Borrower,
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank.
-2-
(b) 
The central unit of the PIU has been established in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Ministry of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Facsimile: 
(5932) 2503-111
2558-232
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at 
L1M A 
_ 
_l_-<._ 
, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECU DOR
By
Title: 
6 
O 
(,' 
ci
INTERNATIONAL 
ANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIO 
ND DEVELOPMENT
By
Name: 
1 -3 P 
-
: 
-
~$LAe)
Title: 
J 
v 
'i 
?- 
t 
P(
-4-
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance incomes of small and medium sized farm
households by supporting more productive and climate-smart use for land and water.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1 Investments for Climate-Smart Subprojects
Provision of support (including pre-investment studies, investment and supervision) for the
carrying out of Climate-Smart Subprojects that shall comprise:
(a) 
Irrigation modernization, including: (i) individual and/or collective small water
storages (ponds); (ii) on-farm investments for modernization of irrigation
techniques (drip, sprinkler or modern gravity techniques) and; (iii) complementary
works aiming at improving off-farm irrigation and drainage networks; and
(b) 
Complementary investments supporting sustainable management of natural
resources.
Part 2 Capacity Buildin2 for Institutional Stakeholders and Beneficiaries' Organizations
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance and training to Water Users Organizations and
Farmers Organizations on: (i) management and optimization of off- and on-farm
irrigation systems and water ponds; (ii) adoption of good agricultural practices to
improve 
production 
and 
productivity, 
value-addition 
and 
post-harvest
management; (iii) improvement of market linkages and access of small-size
producers to agricultural value chains; and (iv) environmental management at
community or farm levels.
(b) 
Provision of support for the institutional strengthening of the main institutional
stakeholders, including MAGAP's central and regional offices and GADs.
(c) 
Provision of support for, inter alia: (i) the preparation of studies on relevant
productive systems, agricultural technologies and climate-smart innovations; (ii)
the analysis and mapping of agricultural value chains; and (iii) the characterization
of commercial opportunities to improve access to markets for Beneficiaries.
Part 3 Proiect MWanagement
Provision of support for the activities associated with overall Project management by the
Borrower and functioning of the PIU and its seven Zonal Zones, including, inter alia, Project-
related audits, monitoring and evaluation, equipment, small works for the refurbishing of Zonal
Offices, technical assistance, training and staffing.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall:
(a) 
create and maintain, until completion of the Project a central unit within MAGAP,
responsible for the management, coordination, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project;
(b) 
not later than twelve (12) months after Effectiveness Date, create and maintain
until completion of Project activities, as part of the PlU, seven Zonal Offices
covering the Borrower's 
territory, responsible for the coordination and
implementation of Project's activities in Selected Provinces; and
(c) 
cause the central unit and its seven Zonal Offices referred to in (a) and (b) above
to maintain, until completion of the Project, a structure, responsibilities and key
staff with functions, experience, and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as
described 
in the Operational 
Manual, 
including: 
procurement, 
financial
management, technical (hydraulics and agronomy), environmental and social
specialists.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational
Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules, methods, guidelines,
standard documents and procedures for the carrying out the Project, including the
following, inter alia: (a) the detailed description of Project implementation activities and
the detailed institutional arrangements of the Project; (b) criteria and methods for the
selection of Beneficiaries; 
(c) 
detailed social, economic, financial, technical and
environmental criteria for the evaluation and ranking for selecting Subprojects, including
a negative list of environmentally sensitive investments (including those that may
potentially affect International Waterways) ineligible for financing under a Subproject; (d)
guidelines for the adoption of an integrated pest management approach in all applicable
activities to be developed under the Project; (e) guidelines to follow in case of unexpected
findings of objects with possible cultural or archeological value; (0 a model form of the
Subproject Agreement; (g) procedures for confirming land ownership of eligible
Beneficiaries; (h) the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement
procedures; (i) the monitoring indicators for the Project; and (j) the ESMF, IPPF and the
RPF. In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. The Borrower shall not amend,
terminate or waive any of the provisions of the Operational Manual without the Bank's
prior consent.
-6-
3. 
The Borrower, through MAGAP, and following the guidelines set forth in the Operational
Manual, shall establish and thereafter operate and maintain throughout the period of
implementation of the pertinent Subproject activities, Provincial Articulation Roundtables
(PARs); said PARs shall have membership (including, inter alia, GADs, NGOs,
representative of other MAGAP's 
Programs), functions, powers, resources 
and
competencies acceptable to the Bank as defined in the Operational Manual, as to ensure
overall participation of GADs and other stakeholders in Project implementation, inter-
institutional coordination and establishment of strategic alliances with other stakeholders,
and participation in the evaluation and selection of Subprojects.
4. 
The Borrower, through MAGAP, not later than six (6) months after the Effectiveness Date,
shall issue a Ministerial Accord in a manner acceptable to the Bank, for the purposes of
articulating and complementing actions among the different MAGAP's Agricultural
Programs and the Project, and maximizing the impacts and sustainability of the different
activities derived from said Programs.
The Borrower, through MAGAP, not later than six (6) months after the Effectiveness Date,
shall, either, enter into an agreement ("Cooperation Agreement"), between the ST and the
SRD, or issue a Ministerial Accord, all acceptable to the Bank, for the purposes of
coordinating the land regularization process, as described in the Operational Manual.
6. 
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall on a date to be agreed with the Bank, but in no case
later than twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date, carry out a review with the
Bank on the overall progress and implementation arrangements in the execution of the
Project and set out the measures and take any remedial action as a result of such review, as
agreed with the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Subprojects
1. 
To 'acilItate the carrying out of Part I of the Project. the Borrower, through M AGAP, shall:
(a) 
After having selected a Subproject in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, enter into an agreement with the
eligible Beneficiary, and, as the case may be, with Participating Entities
("Subproject Agreement"), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank and
included in the Operational Manual, including the Beneficiary's obligations to
carry out the operation, management and maintenance of the selected Subproject
and to contribute to the cost of the Sub-project, the Borrower's obligation to
procure the goods, works and services for the execution of the selected Subproject,
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and as the case may be, the
Participating Entities' obligation to co-finance or co-implement the Subproject, as
the case may be.
(b) 
Exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Subproject Agreements
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce
any Subproject Agreement or any provisions thereof.
(c) 
Submit to the Bank for its non-objection, all selected and prioritized Subproject
profiles, accompanied by a technical report based on the evaluations performed by
the Project's evaluation and coordination committee. After the first year of Project
implementation, and only for those profiles with similar technical designs to the
previously approved profiles, only a sample of profiles will be sent for the Bank's
non-objection.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall and shall cause, as the case may be to: (a) implement
the Project in accordance with the ESMF (including provisions for natural habitats and pest
management); (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said ESMF for environmental screening,
evaluation, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects, including the procedures for
the preparation of environmental management plans, if applicable; and (c) implement
and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent environmental management plan, in
accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF)
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall and shall cause, as the case may be to: (a) implement
the Project in accordance with the IPPF; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said IPPF for
screening, evaluation, implementation, and monitoring of Subprojects; (c) implement
and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent Indigenous Peoples Plan, in accordance with
its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3 
Resettlement Policy Framework (RIPF)
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall and shall cause, as the case may be to: (a) implement
the Project in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework; (b) adopt the
procedures detailed in said Resettlement 
Framework for screening, evaluation,
implementation and monitoring of Subprojects; and (c) implement and/or cause to be
implemented, the pertinent resettlement action plan or abbreviated plan, as the case may
be, all in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
International Waterways
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall ensure that any Subproject that may use or
potentially pollute the waters of an International Waterway, or the tributaries of such an
International Waterway, will be excluded following a process of environmental screening
included in the Operational Manual, and will therefore not be supported under the Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitorini Reportinl and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through
MAGAP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower, through MAGAP, shall have the Financial Statements of the Project audited
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower
or any period agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. 
The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the end of such period.
4. 
For purposes of paragraph 3 above, the Borrower, through MAGAP, shall: (a) send audit
TORs for the Bank's no objection not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date;
(b) select and contract, by no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the services of a
qualilled and CpCrienced auditor, acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to serve as independent external auditor for a period of at least
three (3) consecutive years.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional
provisions referred to in Section IlI.E of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement); (b) Shopping;
and (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' QUalifications. (c) Single-source Selection of' consulting finus; (1)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
E. 
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this
Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the
-I 0-
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures under this Section:
(a) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the
responsive bidder which meets appropriate technical and financial standards of
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank. Such determination shall be made exclusively on
the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria, stipulated in the
bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid
amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as
quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
(b) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents or
used for the purposes of evaluation.
(c) 
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids submitted for a contract to
be subsequently awarded.
(d) 
The bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank, and include the
anticorruption clauses as provided by section 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines.
(e) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB without restriction and shall
not be subject to any unjustified requirement which will affect their ability to bid
such as, but not limited to, the requirement to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with the
Ecuadorian Consulate, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any
authority as a prerequisite of bidding, or be required to enter into a joint venture
agreement with local bidders.
(f) 
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
(g) 
The single envelope procedure shall be used.
(h) 
All bids shall be opened at the stipulated time and place in accordance with a
procedure acceptable to the Bank.
(i) 
A merit point system shall not be used in the pre-qualification and post-
qualification of bidders.
(j) 
The award of contracts for goods, works and non-consulting services shall be based
exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors
similar to those referred to in paragraphs 2.52 and 2.53 of the Procurement
Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
(k) 
Whenever a discrepancy shall occur between the amounts in figures and the
amounts in words of a bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
(1) 
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second
lowest responsive evaluated bid.
(m) 
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents and standard evaluation
formats, all satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the
procurement of consultants' services:
(a) 
The Borrower shall use standard requests for proposals and standard evaluation
formats, all satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
The invitation to submit proposals should be sent to the consulting firms included
in a short list only as approved by the Bank. The invitation to submit proposals
should not be open to any other consulting firm.
(c) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to take an action that could deter their
ability to participate such as, but not limited to, be locally registered, give any
participation to or enter into a joint venture with a local firm or individual,
authenticate (legalizar) any documentation related to their participation in the
selection process with Ecuadorian authorities or to be registered in the Borrower's
National Registry of Suppliers (Registro Nacional de Proveedores).
(d) 
Consultants (firms and individuals) shall not be required to present proposals
securities as a condition to present proposals.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
The Borrower shall withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
-12-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, Works, Non- 
67,700,000 
100%
consulting Services and
Consultant's Services required
for Climate-Smart Subprojects
under Part I of the Project.
(2) Goods, Non-consulting 
5,600,000 
100%
Services, Consultant's
Services, and Training
required under Part 2 of the
Project.
(3) Small works, Goods, Non- 
6,700,000 
100%
consulting Services,
Consultants' Services,
Operating Costs and Training
under Part 3 of the Project.
TOTAL AMvOUNT 
80,000,000___________
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operational costs
(which would not have been incurred absent the Project) incurred by the Borrower,
through MAGAP, related to Project technical and administrative management,
monitoring and supervision required under the Project, including inter a/ia,
remuneration for operational and technical staff (excluding the Borrower's civil
servants), office equipment, supplies, travel costs (including accommodations,
transportation costs and per diem), printing services, communication costs,
utilities, maintenance of office equipment and facilities, vehicle operation and
maintenance costs, and logistics services" and
(b) 
the term "Trainin" means expenditures (other than thoS for cnultn 
siterViS)
InCuned by tihe Borrower. thIoU l 
tiAGAP, in connection with the carryIng OLIt
of training, sinars, and workshops, Including the reasonable travel costs (e.g.
accommodations, transportation costs and per iem) of trainees and trainers (if
applicable), catering, rental of training facilities and equipment, logistics and
printing services, as well as training materials and equipment tinder the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made from
the Loan Account: (a) prior to the date o this Agreement; and (b) until the Bank has
received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2021.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Repayment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
December 15, 2033 
32.1037%
June 15, 2034 
21.7972%
December 15, 2034 
14.7995%
June 15, 2035 
10.0484%
December 15, 2035 
6.8225%
June 15, 2036 
4.6322%
December 15, 2036 
3.1451%
June 15, 2037 
2.1354%
December 15, 2037 
1.4499%
June 15, 2038 
0.9844%
December 15, 2038 
0.6684%
June 15, 2039 
0.4538%
December 15, 2039 
0.3081%
June 15. 2040 
0.2092%
December 15, 2040 
0.1420%
June 15, 2041 
0.0964%
December 15, 2041 
0.0655%
June 15, 2042 
0.0445%
December 15, 2042 
0.0302%
June 15, 2043 
0.0205%
December 15, 2043 
0.0139%
June 15, 2044 
0.0094%
December 15, 2044 
0.0064%
June 15, 2045 
0.0044%
-14-
Repayment Date 
Installment Share
(Exressed as a Percentage)
December 15, 2045 
0.0030%
June 15, 2046 
0.0020%
December 15, 2046 
0.0014%
June 15, 2047 
0.0009%
December 15, 2047 
0.0006%
June 15, 2048 
0.0004%
December 15, 2048 
0.0003%
June 15, 2049 
0.0002%
December 15, 2049 
0.0001%
June 15, 2050 
0.0001%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiary" means small and medium-sized family farmers (including indigenous
peoples) organized into a legally established private association, including Water Users
Association and/or Farmers' Organizations, all of which, upon meeting the criteria set forth
in the Operational Manual, are eligible to receive support, on behalf of its members, for the
carrying out of the respective Sub-Project.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Climate-Smart Subproject" means subproject aimed at rehabilitating and modernizing
irrigation systems, eligible for fifiancing under Part 1 of the Project, in accordance with the
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
5. 
"Co-financier" means the Agencia Espahlola de Desarrollo y Cooperaci6n Internacional
(AECID).
6. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of $20,000,000 to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in
financing Parts I and 3 of the Project.
7. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "GuIidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised Rly 2014).
9. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 1.A.5 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework dated May 2015, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public
on the website www.agricultura.gob.ec, and on Bank's InfoShop on May 31, 2015, which
contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (a)
measures for chance findings of cultural property; (b) protection of natural habitats and pest
management; (c) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions and
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the
Project (including Subprojects); (i) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments and the preparation of eivironmental management plans, when applicable; (e)
-17-
the recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and (f)
measures for enhancing each identified positive impact.
i1. 
"Farmers Organizations or FO" means farmer-based organizations vested with legal
personality and/or a group of farmers organized into a legally established private
association.
12. 
"GAD" means Gobiernos Aut6nomos Decentralizados, any of the Borrower's autonomous
decentralized governments as per the Borrower's constitution.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
14. 
"Indigenous Peoples' Planning Framework or IPPF" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the website
www.agricultura.gob.ec and InfoShop on May 31, 2015, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing
measures to mitigate any adverse impact on indigenous peoples as a result of any activity
carried out under the Project (including Subprojects) and to ensure that they benefit from
the Project, including procedures for the preparation and implementation of the pertinent
Indigenous Peoples development plans.
15. 
"International Waterway" means: (a) any river, canal lake, or similar body of water that
forms a boundary between, or any river or body of surface water that flows through, two
or more international states; (b) any tributary or other body of surface water that is a
component of any waterway described in (a) above; and (c) any bay, gulf, strait, or channel
bounded by two or more international states or, if within one state, recognized as a
necessary channel of communication between the open sea and other states, and any river
flowing into such waters.
16. 
"MAGAP" means Ministerio de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Acuacultura y Pesca, the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Aqua-Culture and Fisheries or any
successor thereto.
17. 
"MAGAP's Agricultural 
P1rograms" 
means the following programs in agriiCUlture
development managed by MAGAP: (a) Hombro a Honbro Program (national extension
program for family farming); (b) the agricultural component of the Plan Nacional Buen
Vivir 2013-2017; and (c) the program on participative technological innovation and
production in agriculture (Provecto de Innovaci6n Tecnol6gica Participativay Producci6n
Agricola).
18. 
"Non-consulting Services" means the services which are of non-intellectual nature and that
can be procured on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs, including
unskilled-labor communications campaigns, production of videos, and installation of
equipment.
19. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual prepared by the Borrower for the operation of the
Project referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"Participating Entities" means the entities referred to in Section LC (a) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement that may participate as co-financiers and/or co-implementing entities with
respect to the Subprojects, and may include, inter alia: GADs, NGOs, bilateral and
multilateral cooperating agencies, as well as implementing agencies of MAGAP's
Agricultural Programs.
21. 
"PLU" means the central unit within MAGAP and the seven Zonal Offices referred to in
Section I.A. 1(a) and (b) of Schedule 2 of this Agreement and to be created under the
responsibility of its Sub-secretary of Irrigation and Drainage.
22. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
23. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March
25, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
24. 
"Provincial Articulation Roundtables or PARs" means the roundtables referred to in
Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework or RPF" means the document prepared by the Borrower.
published and available to the public on the website www.agric-ultura.gob.ec and on
InfoShop on May 31, 2015 and outlining general implementation procedures, mitigation
measures and monitoring procedures for involuntary resettlement and/or land acquisition
under the Project, including the procedures for the preparation and implementation of
resettlement plans, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's
prior approval.
26. 
"Selected Provinces" means the following provinces within the Borrower's territory: (a)
Provinces of Sierra region: Carchi, 
i)(hibura, Pichincha, Coropoxi, Tunwgurahua,
Chimborazo, Bolivar. Canar, Azuav and Loja; and (b) Provinces of Costa region
Esmeraldas, Manabi, Guayas, Santo Domingo de las Tscichilas, Los Rios, Santa Elena and
El Oro.
27. 
"SRD" means Sub-Secretaria de Riego y Drenaje, MAGAP's Under-Secretariat of
Irrigation and Drainage or any successor thereof
28. 
"ST" means Subsecretaria de Tierras, MAGAP's Under-secretariat of land, or any
successor thereto.
29. 
"Subproject Agreement" means "Convenio de Ejecucion", each of the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and an eligible Beneficiary for Climate-Smart
Subprojects as specified in Section 1.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-19-
30. 
"USL" means Subsecretaria de Tierras, MAGAP's Under-Secretariat of Land or any
successor thereof.
31. 
"Water Users Associations" means the associations formed by irrigation water users
operating at the irrigation scheme level, vested with legal personality, in charge of
irrigation system administration, operation and management, water distribution and the
collection of fees.
32. 
"Zonal Offices" means the PIU zonal offices referred to in Section .A. 1(b) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, covering the following provinces: (a) Zone 1: Esmeraldas, Carchi,
Imbabura and Sucumbios; (b) Zone 2: Pichincha, Napo and Orellana; (c) Zone 3: Pastaza,
Cotopaxi, Tungurahua and Chimborazo; (d) Zone 4: Manabi and Santo Domingo de los
Tscichilas; (e) Zone 5: Guayas, Los Rios, Santa Elena and Bolivar; (f) Zona 6: Azuay,
Caihar and Morona Santiago, and (g) Zone 7: El Oro, Loja and Zamora Chinchipe.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
-20-
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section
3.01(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" Is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
-21-
