OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8448-MX
Loan Agreement
(Reducing Inequality of Educational Opportunity Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
September 14 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
September 14 , 2015, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES ("Borrower") duly represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Pziblico) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set
forth in the table in Section IV.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agieement and for purposes of
supporting the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement (the "Project")), shall be
used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary and public
debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without limitation to the
provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank agrees to lend to
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
the amount of one hundred and fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist the Borrower in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Unless the Borrower's representative
designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the
Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director/a de Organismos Financieros
Internacionales ofNAFIN or any person or persons whom he or she shall designate
in writing for this particular purpose.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may (or may cause NAFIN) at any time request any of the
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn,
to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable
to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
-2-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause CONAFE to carry out the Project, in coordination
with SEP and the States (through the SEPEs), all in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMIEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that any of
the parties to the Contrato de Mandato or to any of the Coordination Agreements
shall have failed to: (a) perform any of its obligations under the Contrato de
Mandato or under the relevant Coordination Agreement; and/or (b) comply with
any other transparency and anticorruption commitments undertaken vis-a-vis the
Borrower with respect to this Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any
of the events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Borrower
(in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by Borrower counsel
acceptable to the Bank), CONAFE (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the
Bank, issued by CONAFE counsel acceptable to the Bank) and NAFIN (in a
separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel
acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower,
CONAFE and NAFIN and is legally binding upon the Borrower, CONAFE and
NAFIN in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato's terms.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on April 24, 2016.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Puiblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD Hedge
(as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be: (a) the
Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Ptblico of SHCP or any person or persons whom
he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or (b) the Director/a
de Organismos Financieros Internacionales of NAFIN.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Piblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre III, Piso 3
Colonia Guadalupe Inn, 01020
Delegaci6n Alvaro Obreg6n
M6xico, Distrito Federal
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Authorized Representative
ame: Alejandro Diaz de Le6n
Title: Titular de la Unidad de
Cr6dito Pfiblico
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A16thorized Representative
Name: _Gerardo M. Corrochano
Title: 
Director
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve parental competencies in early
childhood development in targeted rural communities; and (b) increase the transition rate
from the primary to the secondary education level in CONAFE-administered schools in
targeted municipalities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Early Childhood Development
Provision of capacity building to parents, relatives and caregivers of children aged
0 to 3 years and 11 months in selected rural communities to improve their competencies in
caring for children and contributing to their comprehensive development through, inter
alia:
(a) 
the carrying out of capacity building activities to parents, relatives, and
children aged 0 to 3 years and 11 months, through the provision of ECD
Support to ECD promoters, module supervisors, zone coordinators, and
liaison coordinators;
(b) 
the carrying out of capacity building activities for ECD promoters, module
supervisors zone coordinators,.and liaison coordinators; and
(c) 
the design of educational modules to carry out the activities under Parts
1(a) and (b) herein.
Part 2: Mobile Pedagogical Support (Asesores Pedaqkicos Itinerantes)
Carrying out of mobile pedagogical support to under-performing students,
teachers, and parents of students in selected under-lerforming community schools through,
inter alia:
(a) 
the provision of mobile pedagogical support to selected students, teachers
and parents of students in selected under-performing community schools
through the provision of API Support to APIs and their supervisors;
(b) 
the carrying out of capacity building activities for APIs and their
supervisors; and
-6-
(c) 
the design of educational modules to provide the pedagogical support
under Part 2(a) herein.
Part 3: Technical Cooperation, Research and Innovation
Provision of technical assistance to CONAFE to support Project management,
including the carrying out of any analysis required therefor.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause CONAFE to, in coordination with SEP and
SEPEs, carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational
Manual), which shall include specific provisions on detailed arrangements
for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia:
(i) 
the procurement, disbursement and financial 
management
requirements for the Project (including specific measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, to strengthen -
if needed and as
determined by the Bank - the financial management capacities of
the CONAFE State delegations);
(ii) 
the IPP;
(iii) 
the criteria to select the targeted rural communities under Part I
of the Project and the terms of reference for the capacity building
activities under said Part of the Project;
(iv) 
the criteria to select the targeted under-performing community
schools under Part 2 of the Project and the students receiving
mobile pedagogical support under Part 2 (a) of the Project; and
(v) 
the transparency and anticorruption provisions, including a
provision stating that part of the funds for the Project are provided
by the Bank through this Agreement, and therefore establishing
that all parties (individuals and entities) involved in the Project
agree, by the mere fact of participating in the Project, to be bound
by, and to comply with, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
CONAFE not to amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the
Operational Manual without the Bank's prior written approval. In case of
any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to enter into a separate Coordination
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the States (through the
relevant SEPE), whereby:
(i) 
CONAFE shall agree to provide or cause to be provided, in a
timely manner as needed, the funds required for implementing the
Project within each State; and
(ii) 
the State (through SEPE) shall agree to assist CONAFE in the
carrying out of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to ensure that each Coordination
Agreement be duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered by,
CONAFE and each State (through the relevant SEPE) and be legally binding
upon CONAFE and each State in accordance with the relevant Coordination
Agreement's terms.
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Coordination Agreement. Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, CONAFE shall not amend, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any provision of each Coordination Agreement. In case of any
conflict between the terms of each Coordination Agreement and those of
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause CONAFE, to ensure that each State abides by
all applicable Project provisions laid out in this Agreement, including the carrying
out of the Project in accordance to the Operational Manual (including the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines).
4. 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to:
(a) 
coordinate Project implementation through the DECIS, DAF and DPE and
ensure that DECIS, DAF and DPE maintain, throughout Project
implementation, staff in sufficient numbers and with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
with the collaboration of the relevant State delegations of CONAFE,
maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the funds and other resources it has
received, allocated and/or spent in connection with the Project; and
(c) 
cooperate fully with NAFIN so as to allow NAFIN to comply with
NAFIN's obligations referred to in this Agreement.
-2-
B. 
Contrato de Mandato
1 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato),
satisfactory to the Bank, among CONAFE and NAFIN, whereby, inter alia:
(a) 
CONAFE agrees to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement including compliance with the Operational Manual
(including the IPP and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines);
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to the
Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the Borrower
vis-a-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees 
if requested by the Borrower (through SHCP) - to maintain and operate
the designated account (referred to in the additional instructions cited in
Section IV.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) in compliance with the
terms of this Agreement;
(c) 
NAFIN agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(d) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its
effects, or, if applicable, require the Restitution of an amount equivalent
the funds transferred to NAFIN under said Contrato de Mandato; and
(e) 
the Borrower agrees to cause CONAFE to cooperate fully with NAFIN to
ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN's obligations
referred to in Section I.B.1 (b) above.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not amend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of
the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Contrato
de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
-3-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. In this regard, the Borrower shall,
and cause CONAFE to ensure, inter alia, compliance with paragraph 9 (d) of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines as follows:
(a) 
by requiring the States to take appropriate measures to prevent, inform on,
respond to and investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and
obstructive practices with respect to their participation of the Project;
(b) 
by allowing the Bank to inspect accounts, records and other documents of
any/or all the States relating to the Project upon the Bank's request and in
the company of the corresponding Borrower's representatives and/or
CONAFE's representatives, as the case may be; and
(c) 
by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank's
terms of reference for such purpose, with the collaboration of the Borrower
and/ CONAFE, as the case may be;
all the above pursuant to audit, transparency, control, restitution and information
sharing clauses within the Coordination Agreements and its annual annexes, the
Operational Manual, the Oficio referred under Section I.C.2 below, and/or any
other means (including, but not limited to the Borrower's rights under the Federal
Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law, the General Public Debt Law, and the
Monitoring and Accountability Law).
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and Section 9.03(b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, no
later than the date ten (10) business days after the date of this Agreement, issue a
notice (Oficio) acceptable to the Bank: (a) attaching a copy of the Ant-corruption
Guidelines; and (b) asking the States to comply with transparency and
anticorruption provisions, including a provision stating that the Bank is supporting
the Project through this Agreement, and therefore establishing that all parties
(individuals and entities) involved in the Project agree, by the mere fact of
participating in the Project, to be bound by, and to comply with, the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.
-4-
Section H. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause CONAFE to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45)
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which with the fiscal year in which
the Project becomes effective. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section I. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Non-consulting Services. 
All non-consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-5-
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
4. 
Special Provisions. The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to: (a) supply the SEPA
with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 45 days after
the date of this Agreement; and (b) update the Procurement Plan at least once a
year, or as needed through the duration of the Project, to reflect the actual Project
implementation needs and progress and supply the SEPA with the information
contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Non-consulting Services
1 .
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Non-consulting Services. 
The following
methods, other than National Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement
of non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) Shopping; and (b) Direct Contracting when justified according to the
Procurement Guidelines.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
-6-
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions).
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A. 1
immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under
the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures.
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) ECD Support and 
115,970,000 
100%
Capacity Building under
Part 1(a) and 1(b) of the
Project
-7-
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(2) APIs Support and 
31,410,000 
100%
Capacity Building under
Part 2(a) and (b) of the
Project
(3) Non-consulting services, 
2,245,000 
100%
and consultants' services
under Part 1(c), 2(c), and 3
of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
4. 
For purposes of this Section IV.A the term "Capacity Building" means reasonable
expenditures (other than consultants' services and non-consulting services)
incurred in connection with capacity building activities under Parts 1(b) and 2(b)
of the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$30,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
January 1, 2014, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
-8-
SCHEDULE 3
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on August 15,
2030.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"API Support" means payments made out of the proceeds of the Loan to APIs and
their supervisors for the provision of pedagogical support under Part 2(a) of the
Project.
3. 
"Asesores Pedag6gicos Itinerantes" or "APIs" means CONAFE's mobile
pedagogical advisors, as regulated by the Normative and Operational Guidelines
of the Pedagogical Mobile Advice Strategy 2013-2014 (Lineamientos Normativos
y Operativos de la Estrategia Asesoria Pedag6gica Itinerante 2013-2014), issued
jointly by SEP and CONAFE in February 2013.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"CONAFE" means the Borrower's National Council for Educational Development
(Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo), regulated under a Decree of the
Borrower, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on September 10, 1971 (as
amended to the date of this Agreement).
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Contrato de Mandato" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the Bank's prior approval.
8. 
"Coordination Agreement" means any agreement entered into between CONAFE
and a State pursuant to Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
9. 
"DAF" means Direcci6n de Administraci6n y Finanzas, CONAFE's Administration
and Finances Directorate.
10. 
"DECIS" means Direcci6n de Educaci6n Comunitaria e Inclusi6n Social,
CONAFE's Community Education and Social Inclusion Directorate.
-10-
11. 
"DPE" means Direcci6n de Planeaci6n y Evaluaci6n, CONAFE's Planning and
Evaluation Directorate.
12. 
"ECD" means early childhood development.
13. 
"ECD Support" means payments made out of the proceeds of the Loan to ECD
promoters, module supervisors, zone coordinators and liaison coordinators for the
carrying out of capacity building activities under Part 1(a) of the Project.
14. 
"Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law" means the Borrower's Ley
Federal de Presupuesto y Responsabilidad Hacendaria, as said law and its
subsequent amendments have been published in the Official Gazette through
August 11, 2014.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
16. 
"General Public Debt Law" means the Borrower's Ley General de Deuda Pblica,
as said law and its subsequent amendments have been published in the Official
Gazette through August 11, 2014.
17. 
"Hedging Guidelines" means the Bank's Guidelines for Using Hedging Products
dated March 23, 2009 or any later guidelines issued by the Bank to replace said
Guidelines.
18. 
"IPP" means the Borrower's Indigenous Peoples Plan dated May, 2014, as
published in Infoshop on June 20, 2014 and in CONAFE's website on June 19,
2014.
19. 
"Monitoring and Accountability Law" means the Borrower's Ley de Fiscalizaci6n
y Rendici6n de Cuentas de la Federaci6n, as said law and its subsequent
amendments have been published in the Official Gazette through June 18, 2010.
20. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., LB.D, a Mexican development
bank serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
21. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, dated September 9, 2014 as said manual may be amended
from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
- 11 
22. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
23. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 9, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
24. 
"Restitution" means paying back the ill-gotten gains to the government or to the
victirii of fraud and corruption, as set forth in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
25. 
"SEP" means Secretaria de Educaci6n Piblica, the Borrower's Public Education
Ministry.
26. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.
27. 
"SEPE" means Secretaria de Educaci6n Piblica Estatal, a State's Public Education
Ministry or equivalent.
28. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Pliblico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
29. 
"State" means the thirty one geopolitical subdivisions (Estados) of the Borrower.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
- 12 
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
- 13 
