LOAN NUMBER 8526-AO
Loan Agreement
(First Fiscal Management Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A, 
2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8526-AO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
h 
__ 
, 
2015, 
entered into
between REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA ("Bo 
we ") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section L.A
of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and fifty million Dollars
(USD 450,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
-2-
General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April land October 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2. 09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
-3-
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
502. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister in charge of finance or any successor
thereto.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Minist6rio das Finangas
Largo da Mutamba
Luanda, Angola
Facsimile: +244 222 706 002/3
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5
AGREED at 
as of the day and year first above
written.' 
V
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
A 
m 
a 
M LA
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByC
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
_E_Jn_ 
AA___Q&__\_-
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Pro2ram
Actions to be Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower
under the Program include the following:
1. 
Integrated 
tax and customs 
administration 
including through the
establishment, institutionalization and provision of a governance structure
for the AGT as evidenced by the: (a) Presidential Decree No. 324/14
published in the Diario da Republica No. 220 dated December 15, 2014;
and (b) Ministry of Finance Order n. 5513/14 published in the Diario da
Republica No. 149 dated December 24, 2014.
2. 
Streamlined tax policy to support the modernization of tax administration
in order to ensure compliance by taxpayers, simplify procedures, expand
the tax base, reduce distortions and enhance equity as evidenced by the: (a)
Industrial Tax Code (Law no. 19/14, of 22 October) published in the Diario
da Republica No. 192 dated October 22, 2014; (b) Personal Income Tax
Code (Law no. 18/14) published in the Diario da Republica No. 192 dated
October 22, 2014; (c) Tax on Invested Capital Code (Presidential Decree
Law no. 2/14) published in the Diario da Republica No. 190 dated October
20, 2014; (d) New General Tax Code (Law 21/14, of 22 October); (e) Tax
Enforcement Code (Law 20/14) published in the Diario da Republica No.
192 dated October 22, 2014; and (f) Procedures Code (Law No. 22/14)
published in the Diario da Republica No. 217 dated December 5, 2014.
3. 
Enacted a revised budget law that, among other things, adjusts the 2015 PIP
downwards by 50 percent to reflect declining oil prices, as evidenced by
the Revised 2015 Budget Law published in the Diario da Republica No. 49
dated April 9, 2015.
4. 
Strengthened the PIP by restructuring it, approving a manual for monitoring
risky projects; and developing performance indicators to monitor and
measure project performance as evidenced by the letter from the Minister
of Planning and Territorial Development dated May 8, 2015, attaching the:
(a) report on the cleaning up of the 2014 PIP; (b) manual of preparation
and execution of field visits for structural projects issued by the National
Directorate of Public Investment on December 2014; and (c) table of
performance indicators 
issued by the National Directorate of Public
Investment on December 2014.
-7-
5. 
(a) Created a joint committee (the Joint Committee) comprised of
representatives of MPDT and MoF chaired by the Minister of Finance with
mandate to design and implement the necessary actions to attain full
integration of the SIPIP and SIGFE as evidenced by the Ministerial Decree
signed by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Planning and
Territorial Development on May 2015; (b) Initiated the integration of the
SIPIP and SIGFE through the following measures: (i) creation of an
electronic process for internal budget readjustments of the PIP, including
budget units, MPTD and MoF; (ii) merging of MPTD and SIGFE mailing
lists for automated alerts for the purpose of: (A) withholding or releasing
(as the case may require) budget funds for new projects; (B) activation of
additional budget credits; and (C) activation of budget ceilings;
(iii) allowing MPTD to access SIGFE for purposes of extracting PIP budget
execution reports at project level; and (iv) allowing MoF to access SIPIP
for purposes of preparing the annual PIP budget proposal as evidenced by
the Minutes of the Joint Committee meeting dated May 11, 2015.
6. 
Increased retail fuel prices in order to start the phasing out of inefficient
and untargeted fuel subsidies which jointly resulted in the following
increases in fuel prices: (a) gasoline and diesel: 50%; (b) liquefied
petroleum gas: 21.6%; (c) kerosene:34.6%; (d) heavy and light fuel oil:
100%; and (e) asphalt: 18.8% as evidenced by Executive Decree no. 289/14
published in the Diario da Republica no. 179 dated September 26, 2014,
Executive Decree no. 405/14 published in the Diario da Republica no.
405/14 dated December 24, 2014.
7. 
Expanded social protection by completing the registration of 50,000
families in the Borrower's pilot "Cartao Ki Kuia" cash transfer program,
as evidenced by the letter from the Minister of Commerce dated April 2,
2015, describing the process used to target municipalities and register
beneficiaries.
8. 
Strengthened evidence-based policy making by approving the National
Strategy of Statistical Development for 2015-2025 (ENDE 2015-2025), as
evidenced by the publication of the said Strategy in the Diario da Republica
no. 64 dated May 7, 2015.
9. 
Initiated monitoring of its social programs by concluding the preparatory
work to launch the 2015 Survey Expenditure, Revenue and Employment of
the Population (IDRE-2015), including the: (a) design of a national sample
frame based on the 2014 census ensuring national and provincial
representativeness; 
(b) design and programming of the electronic
-8-
questionnaire for the IDRE-2015 survey; and (c) finalization of the IDRE-
2015 sample, as evidenced by the letter from the General Director of INE
dated May 7, 2015, attaching the preparatory work for the IDRE-2015.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
448,875,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,125,000
(3) Amount due pursuant to 
0
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
450,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being
carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that, upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
-9-
E. 
Audit. Upon request from the Bank, the Borrower shall:
1. 
have the account and the recording of the amounts of the Loan into the Borrower's
budget management system referred to in Part D of this Section audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4)
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of
the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request; and
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said account and
recording of the amounts of the Loan into the budget management system, and
their audit, as the Bank shall reasonably request.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
-10-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; and (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 1 and October 1
Beginning October 1, 2025,
through April 1, 2044 
2.56%
On October 1, 2044 
2.72%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
to the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule; and
(b) 
any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 11 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 12 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"AGT" and "Administracao Geral Tributaria" means the Borrower's general
tax administration body.
2. 
"Diario da Republica" means the Borrower's official gazette.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors
- 13 -
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
6. 
"MPTD" means the Borrower's ministry of planning and territorial development.
7. 
"PIP" means the Borrower's public investment program.
8. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated May 12, 2015, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
- 14 -
9. 
"SIGFE" and "Sistema Integrado de Gestao Financeira do Estado" means the
Borrower's financial management integrated system.
10. 
"SIPIP" and "Sistema Integrado du Programa de Investimentos Publicos" means
the Borrower's integrated system of public investment program.
11. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
- 15-
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.0 1(a).
- 16-
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium
payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after
the word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
