OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8524-PL
Loan Agreement
(Odra Vistula Flood Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
5j+omn 
,4 
,201
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 5 tan bo 
AD 
, 2015, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
("Borrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to contract from the Council of Europe Development
Bank (Co-financier CEB) a loan in an amount equal to three hundred million Euro (6300,000,000)
(the CEB Cofinancing) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth, respectively, in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the CEB (the CEB
Cofinancing Agreement).
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and sixty million Euros (E460,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
-2-
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread,
or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable
to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Administration and
Digitization ("MAD") in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MAD, shall ensure
that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES
4.01. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing CEB Agreement is
December 31, 2016.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Borrower, through PSC, has approved the Project Operations Manual in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
ul. Swiqtokrzyska 12
00-916 Warszawa
Republic of Poland
Facsimile: 
+48226943070
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at __ 
_ 
__ 
_ 
__ 
_h 
,as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
L6Q'L 
2 07 
,
Title: 
tL 
hV\,6 L2 cc
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
t V 
Lvi a 
e s
Title: 
oukvfrj 
0 n CX 
9,ef 
-, L6-tavdk
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase access to flood protection for people living
in selected areas of the Odra River and the Upper Vistula River basins; and (b) strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Borrower to mitigate the impact of floods more effectively.
The Project will consist of the following parts:
Part 1: 
Flood Protection of the Middle and Lower Odra
Provision of support to the cities of Szczecin and Slubice, the town of Gryfino, as well as other
selected smaller towns along the Odra River to enhance protection against summer and winter
floods, including through:
(a) 
Constructing and reconstructing dikes and other Odra River bank protective works
(such as revetments and parapets).
(b) 
Dredging of the Odra River, canals and the harbor of Szczecin.
(c) 
Carrying out river training related works for the recalibration and (re)construction
of groynes and lateral submerged dams in the Odra River.
(d) 
Restoring bends.
(e) 
Raising five bridges to facilitate safe passage of icebreakers and expand navigation
and mooring facilities.
(f) 
Revitalizing the Miedzyodrze wetland, located upstream of the harbor of Szczecin,
to help accommodate water surges and restore some of the ecological and touristic
functions of the natural habitat.
Part 2: 
Flood Protection of the Nysa Klodzka Valley
Provision of support to help protect the town of Klodzka and other selected small valley towns in
the Nysa Klodzka Valley, such as the city of Bardo, including:
(a) 
Constructing four mid-sized dry polders ("active protection") to increase the buffer
capacity in the Nysa Klodzka Valley.
(b) 
Rehabilitating dikes and (re)constructing river alignments, embankments, bridges
and other structures ("passive protection") to allow the temporary retention and
safe passage of flood waves accompanied by large amounts of debris.
-6-
Part 3: 
Flood Protection of the Upper Vistula
Provision of support to protect the Krakow agglomeration and Nowa Huta industrial area, the
Sandomierz-Tarnobrzeg industrial and agricultural areas, and selected towns located along
tributaries in the sub-basins of the San River and Raba River, including:
(a) 
Reconstructing and extending dikes and embankments along the Upper Vistula to
replace old and/or unreliable dikes.
(b) 
Stabilizing and strengthening the Upper Vistula River bank with flood protection
works including, inter alia, rip-rap and revetments.
(c) 
Constructing dry polders and overflow areas along the Serafa River, and the Raba
River to increase upstream water retention.
(d) 
Provision of select river training works.
(e) 
Adjusting existing weirs and barrages to enable the passage of larger flood waves.
Part 4: 
Institutional Strengthening and Enhanced Forecasting
Provision of support to strengthen the Borrower's institutional capacity in the following priority
areas: preparation of investments, planning and prioritization, including:
(a) 
Enhancing the emergency preparedness along the Borrower's main rivers and their
tributaries in south and west Poland by improving forecasting and operational
water management capacity.
(b) 
Strengthening the procedures and capacity to prepare river basin management
plans and investment prioritization plans that are compliant with the European
Union Water Framework Directive and European Union Floods Directive.
(c) 
Strengthening the Borrower's impact monitoring capacity and its capacity to apply
methodologies of integrated water resources management to complex investments.
(d) 
Enhancing the Borrower's strategic communication capacity regarding flood risks.
Part 5: 
Project Management and Studies
(a) 
Provision of support to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and Project
Implementation 
Units 
through 
the 
provision 
of technical 
assistance,
analytical/technical/impact assessment studies, office equipment and Incremental
Operating Costs to assist the Borrower in the implementation, monitoring and
supervision of the Project (including Project audits).
(b) 
Provision of support for the implementation of the EMP(s) and RAP(s) prepared
in connection with the Project (including the support of provision of Resettlement
Compensation).
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
The Borrower shall maintain the following institutional arrangements throughout the life of the
Project:
1. 
The Project Steering Committee (PSC) shall be responsible for:
(a) 
providing overall guidance and oversight at the highest governmental level,
reviewing the overall implementation of the Project and assisting the Borrower to
resolve Project implementation and financing issues. The PSC shall be maintained,
throughout the implementation of the Project, with composition and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and shall be co-chaired by the Minister of
Administration and Digitization and the Minister of Environment and administered
with the support of the MAD.
(b) 
overall Project management and supervision, including prioritization and
coordination of Project activities, approval of the Annual Work Programs (AWP),
and fiduciary and safeguards monitoring, as set forth in more detail in the Project
Operational Manual ("POM").
2. 
The MoE, through the National Water Management Authority ("KZGW"), and MAD
respectively shall be responsible for the coordination and monitoring of Project activities
at the technical 
level. Designated: (i) Regional Water Management Authorities
("RZGWs"); (ii) Institute of Meteorology and Water Management ("IMGW"); and (iii)
Voivodship Board of Land Reclamation and Waters ("ZMiUWs") shall be responsible for
implementation of specific Project activities in their respective areas of responsibility as
set forth in the POM. To this effect, the Borrower, through RZGWs, IMGW and ZMiUWs
shall establish, and thereafter operate and maintain throughout the implementation of the
Project, Project Implementation Units (PIUs) responsible for the day-to-day local
administration of the Project in their areas of responsibilities, all with composition and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Project Coordination Unit ("PCU") shall be responsible for the day-to-day
coordination and overall administration of the Project, including preparation of AWPs,
consolidated 
reporting and the supervision, 
monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of the EMPs and RAPs. The PCU, including its local representatives, shall
be maintained, throughout the implementation of the Project, with composition and terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Implementation Covenants
1 .
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the POM, the respective
Annual Work Programs, the Environmental Management Plan(s) and the Resettlement
-8-
Action Plan; and (b) shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of
the POM, AWP, the EMP(s) or the RAP, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall:
(a) 
not later than November 15 of each year during the implementation of the Project,
starting November 15, 2015, prepare in accordance with the format included in the
POM and submit to the Bank for review and approval an AWP for the following
calendar year, including indicative amounts needed to implement the Project
activities under the respective AWP and adequate operation and maintenance
allocations for the works carried out under the Project, and recommended
measures, if any, to be adopted in said calendar year;
(b) 
each year during the implementation of the Project, starting March 31, 2016, as
part of the progress report referred to in Section II.A.1 of this Schedule, submit to
the Bank, a report, acceptable to the Bank, on the performance of the AWP for the
preceding calendar year based on the indicators and monitoring arrangements for
said calendar year, set forth in the POM; and thereafter jointly undertake with the
Bank a review of the Project activities based on said report, and include any
recommended measures by the Bank in the AWP for the following calendar year.
3. 
Without limitations to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall each year during the implementation of the Project include in its overall
budget the funds to finance the carrying out of the pertinent Annual Work Program for the
respective calendar year.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and Environmental
Management Plan (EMP)
(a) 
The Borrower, through PCU, shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the
ESMF; (ii) prior to carrying out any Project activity under Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the
Project, carry out the pertinent environmental/social assessment and thereafter
prepare and implement the pertinent EMP in line with the ESMF and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank; (iii) adequately monitor and evaluate the carrying out of
the measures provided in the respective EMPs; (iv) ensure that the EMP measures
are included in construction contracts for works related to said Project activity;
and (v) maintain the Bank suitably informed of the progress in the implementation
of the respective EMPs.
(b) 
The Borrower shall not amend or abrogate any of the provisions of the ESMF or
the respective EMPs without the prior approval of the Bank.
-9-
(c) 
The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy in
respect of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review
thereof, and to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the
requirements of the Bank Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice
conveyed through such technical assistance and be publicly disclosed and
consulted upon in accordance with the Bank Safeguards Policies; and (ii) ensure
that any capacity building activities under the Project are consistent with, and pay
due regard to, Bank Safeguards Policies.
2. 
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and Resettlement Action Plans (RAP)
(a) 
If, as a result of the definition of the zone impact in respect of any given Project
activity and/or the carrying out of the pertinent environmental/social assessment
(as mentioned in Section I.D.1 of this Schedule), it is determined by the Bank that
Resettlement will be involved in respect of any given Project activity, and prior to
the carrying out of any works under the corresponding activity, the Borrower,
through the PCU, shall: (i) prepare and/or cause to be prepared and furnish to the
Bank, a Resettlement Action Plan acceptable to the Bank for each said such Project
activity (which plan shall be consistent with the provisions of the Resettlement
Policy Framework, and include the Borrower's commitment to provide the
necessary funds and other resources to carry out said Resettlement Plan); and (ii)
immediately thereafter implement and/or cause to be implemented each
Resettlement Action Plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower shall not amend or abrogate any of the provisions of the ESMF or
the respective EMPs without the prior approval of the Bank.
3. 
Polder under Parts 2 and 3 of the Project
For the purposes of carrying out the polder works under Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
(a) 
maintain an independent panel of experts in number, with qualifications, and under
terms of reference, all satisfactory to the Bank to: (i) advise the Borrower on
matters relative to the safety of the polder and other critical aspects of the polder
and such infrastructure works, including its appurtenant structures, the catchment
area, the area surrounding the reservoir, and the downstream areas; and (ii) review
such matters as investigations, technical design, construction procedures, cracking
potential 
(design 
provisions, 
construction 
measures 
and 
surveillance
recommendations), the start of its operations and the polder's associated works
such as the river diversion during construction, fish ladders and large hydraulic
infrastructure works.
(b) 
convene panel meetings periodically during Project implementation and retain the
Panel through the start-up of the operation of the polder.
-10-
(c) 
prepare and implement a detailed plan for: (i) construction supervision and quality
assurance; (ii) implementation, operation and maintenance; and (iii) an emergency
preparedness plan, all under terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) 
after start-up of the operation of the polder, appoint independent qualified
professionals who have not been involved with the investigation, design,
construction, or operation of the polder, and with qualifications and on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, to carry out periodic safety inspections; the
frequency of such inspections to be decided based on the recommendations of the
panel of experts at the end of the construction period of the polder works.
4. 
Natural Habitats under the Project
The enhancement and other compensation measures for natural habitats located within the
Project area shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF and respective
EMP.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower, through PCU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare consolidated Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in paragraph I above, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the objectives of
the Project, or the performance of its obligations under this Agreement;
(b) 
no later than December 15, 2019 or such other date as may be agreed with the Bank
carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review (the Mid-Term Review) of the
progress made in carrying out the Project and overall Project performance against
Project performance indicators;
(c) 
at least four weeks prior to the Mid-Term Review, prepare and furnish to the Bank,
a report describing the status of implementation of each component of the Project
and a summary report of Project implementation generally; and
(d) 
not later than March 15, 2020 after the completion of the Mid-Term Review,
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a report, acceptable to the Bank, which shall
include, inter alia, the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review as agreed with
-1l-
the Bank and a timetable, and thereafter implement said recommendations in
accordance with said timetable and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MAD, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through the
PCU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of each Project Report, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent calendar quarter, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections 11 and Ill of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan:
-12-
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding in accordance with and subject to the additional
provisions in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b) 
Shopping; and
(c) 
Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Quality-based Selection;
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget;
(c) 
Least Cost Selection;
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications;
(e) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms;
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(g) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
-13-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in Euro) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
460,000,000 
Such percentage of Eligible
consulting services, 
Expenditures as the Bank
consultants' services, 
may determine for each
(including Project audits), 
calendar year, starting in
Resettlement Compensation, 
calendar year 2015, covered
Training, and Incremental 
by the respective AWP in
Operating Costs for the 
accordance with the
Project 
provisions set forth in Section
IV.B.2 of this Schedule.
TOTAL AMOUNT 
460,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; and
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of the table under Part A of this Section, the sum
of the Bank's financing percentage of Eligible Expenditures under the Loan combined with
the financing percentage provided by the Co-financier CEB and the Borrower equals 100%
of each Eligible Expenditure.
3. 
The Closing Date is December 15, 2023.
-14-
ANNEX TO
SCHEDULE 2
Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts
Subject to National Competitive Bidding
The procurement procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be the Open
Tender Procedure set forth in the Borrower's Public Procurement Law (Journal of Laws of 2013,
item 907, 984, 1047, 1473, of 2014 item 423, 768, 811, 915, 1146 and 1232, of 2015 item 349, 478
and 605) dated January 29, 2004, as revised on October 19, 2014 ("the Law"), provided, however,
that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
"Procurement Guidelines and the following additional provisions:
A. 
Eligibility
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process for and to be awarded a Bank-financed contract
shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
B. 
Procedures
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Official Gazette of the Borrower or in at least one widely
circulated national daily newspaper or in an electronic portal of free access allowing a minimum of
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.
C. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
D. 
Bid Evaluation
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the evaluation criteria disclosed in the
bidding documents. Evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. Merit
points and bracketing shall not be used, and no minimum point or percentage value shall be
assigned to the significance of price, in bid evaluation.
E. 
Contract Award
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder who submitted the "best offer" which has been
determined: (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (ii) to offer the lowest-
evaluated cost.
F. 
Price Adiustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e. more than eighteen (18) months) shall contain an
appropriate price adjustment clause acceptable to the Bank.
-15-
G. 
Fraud and Corruption
Each bidding document for the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, including the related contract, shall include provisions on matters
pertaining to fraud and corruption as defined in paragraph 1.16(a) of the Procurement Guidelines.
The Bank will sanction a firm or an individual, at any time, in accordance with prevailing Bank
sanctions procedures, including by publicly declaring such firm or individual ineligible, either
indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; and (ii) to be
a nominated sub-contractor, consultant, manufacturer or supplier, or service provider of an
otherwise eligible firm being awarded a Bank-financed contract.
H. 
Audit Rights
In accordance with paragraph 1.16(e) of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, each bidding
document for the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, including the related contract, shall provide that-the bidders, suppliers,
contractors, and their subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers
shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts, records, and other documents relating
to the bid submission and performance of the contract, and to have them audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and material violation by the bidder, supplier, contractor or
subcontractor of such provision may amount to an obstructive practice as defined in paragraph
1.16(a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2025
through May 15, 2044 
2.56%
On November 15, 2044 
2.72%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
-17-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Persons" means persons that have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected;
or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
2. 
"Annual Work Program" or "AWP" means any of the Borrower's annual work programs
referred to in Section I.B.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures set forth in the
World Bank Operations Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36,
4.37, 7.50, and 7.60, as published under www.worldbank.orp/opmanual.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Co-financier CEB" means the Council of Europe Development Bank or "CEB".
7. 
"Co-financing CEB" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, the amount referred to in the "whereas" clause in this Agreement to be
provided by the Co-financier CEB to assist in financing the Project.
8. 
"Co-financing CEB Agreement" means the agreement referred to in the "whereas" clause
in this Agreement providing for Co-financing by the CEB.
9. 
"Consultant Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
10. 
"Development Partners" means together and/or individually the Co-financier CEB, the
World Bank and any other Co-financier that will contribute to the Project.
I 1. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means any of the plans, acceptable to the
Bank, describing, inter alia, the environmental, mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures to be undertaken to avoid or minimize the environmental impact associated with
the Project activities, as any such EMP, may be amended from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.
12. 
"Environmental Safeguard Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework, dated April 2015, acceptable to the Bank, describing the environmental,
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken under the Project to
-19-
ensure that all environmental concerns are adequately taken into account in the carrying
out of the Project activities, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the
prior agreement of the Bank.
13. 
European Union Floods Directive means the Directive 2007/60/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the assessment and management of
flood risks (published in the Official Journal No L 288, 6.11.2007).
14. 
European Union Water Framework Directive means the Directive 2000/60/EC of the
European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the Community
action in the field of water policy (published in the Official Journal No L 327, 22.12.2000).
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
16. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of
Project implementation, management, and monitoring such as: for office space rental,
utilities, and office supplies, bank charges, communications, building and equipment
maintenance, 
advertising expenses, translation, travel and supervision (including
supervision activities in connection with the Project, salaries of contractual and temporary
staff, but excluding salaries, fees, and bonuses of members of the Borrower's civil service).
17. 
"Institute of Meteorology and Water Management" or "IMGW" means the Borrower's
Institute of Meteorology and Water Management established under the supervision of
MoE/KZGW (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to decree no. 338/72 issued by the Council
of Ministers on 30 December 1972 as amended, or any legal successor thereto.
18. 
"Ministry of Administration and Digitization" or "MAD" means the Borrower's Ministry
of Administration and Digitization, or any legal successor thereto.
19. 
"Ministry of Environment" or "MoE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment, or
any legal successor thereto.
20. 
"National Water Management Authority" or "KZGW" means the Borrower's National
Water Management Authority under the supervision of MoE, established pursuant to the
Borrower's Act on Water Law dated July 18, 2001, as amended, or any legal successor
thereto.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, referred to in
paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the
provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Project Coordination Unit" or "PCU" means the unit within the MoE and established in
Wroclaw by KZGW (defined hereinafter).
-20-
24. 
"Project Implementation Units" means the units established within the respective RZGWs,
IMGW and ZMiUWs (as defined hereinafter therefor) to carry out Project activities within
the areas of responsibility.
25. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the Borrower's manual, acceptable to the
Bank, outlining, inter alia, responsibilities, procurement and contracting procedures,
financial management procedures, procedures for preparation of annual Training plans for
the implementation of the Project, and such term includes any schedules to the manual, as
such manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
26. 
"Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the committee established by the Borrower
and referred to in Section 1.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"Regional Water Management Authority" or "RZGW" means the Borrower's Regional
Water Management Authority under KZGW established pursuant to the Borrower's Act
on Water Law dated of 18 July 2001, as amended the Act on Water Law, or any legal
successor thereto.
28. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of: (a) an involuntary taking of land under the Project,
which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected;
or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas under the Project, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons.
29. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the Borrower's resettlement action plan
acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the measures necessary to ensure that the displaced
persons under Part I through 3 of the of the Project are: (i) informed about their options
and rights pertaining to resettlement; (ii) consulted on, offered choices among, and
provided with technically and economically feasible resettlement alternatives; (iii)
provided: (A) prompt and effective compensation at full replacement cost for losses of
assets attributable directly to the Project; (B) assistance (such as moving allowances)
during relocation; and (C) with residential housing, or housing sites, or, as required,
agricultural sites for which a combination of productive potential, locational advantages,
and other factors is at least equivalent to the advantages of the old site; (iv) offered support
after displacement, for a transition period, based on a reasonable estimate of the time likely
to be needed to restore their livelihood and standards of living; and (v) provided with
development assistance in addition to the aforementioned compensation measures, such as
land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job opportunities.
30. 
"Resettlement Compensation" means the expenditures incurred in financing the cost of
providing compensation or resettlement assistance under the Project in accordance with the
RPF and the pertinent RAP.
-21-
31. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" 
means the Borrower's resettlement
framework dated April 2015, setting forth, inter alia: (i) the Resettlement principles, the
organizational arrangements, and the design criteria to be applied to the activities to be
prepared during the implementation of Parts I through 3 of the Project; (ii) the estimates
of the total population to be displaced and the overall resettlement costs; (iii) the
assessment of the institutional capacity and procedures of each of the Borrower's entities
that will be responsible for financing of the aforementioned activities; (iv) the methods of
valuing affected assets; (v) a description of the implementation process, linking
Resettlement implementation to civil works; (vi) a description of grievance redress
mechanisms and of the mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of, displaced
persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring; and (vii) the arrangements for
monitoring by the implementing agencies and, if and as required, by independent monitors.
32. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services) incurred for
training and training-related activities under the Project, including seminars, workshops
and study tours, travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, trainers' fees,
rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities incidental to the preparation and implementation of training activities, as
approved by the Bank.
33. 
"Voivodship Board of Land Reclamation and Waters" or "ZMiUW" means the
Borrower's local government organizational unit under the supervision of the Borrower's
respective voivoid (marshall).
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
-22-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
