OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8560-MA
Loan Agreement
(Urban Transport Program)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 21, 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8560-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated December 21, 
2015, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
program described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program through the Mol in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
-3-
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable: 
Facsimile:
MINFIN 
212-537-67-75-32
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
C-66- 
_u< 
, 
/Y1)r ol Lo 
, as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Mohamed Boussaid
Title: Mi ister of Economy and Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO
RECONSTRUCTION AND D VELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
Title: Country Director
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to strengthen the capacity of urban transport institutions to
plan, implement and monitor infrastructure and services, and to improve the level of service of
urban transport on targeted corridors in the Program Area.
The Program consists of the following activities to be implemented in the Program Area:
Part 1: Strengthening central capacity to plan and monitor urban transport
1. Strengthening the central monitoring and evaluation system for the urban transport sector.
2. 
Strengthening the Urban Transport Fund (FART) by supporting, inter alia, the applicable
decision making framework and the financing of urban transport projects.
Part 2: Strengthenin2 local capacity to plan, implement, and monitor urban transport
1. Strengthening local capacity to coordinate initiatives at the urban agglomeration level
through the creation of associations of agglomerations or similar institutional
arrangements.
2. 
Strengthening local technical capacity and resources to plan urban transport activities,
through: (i) the preparation of urban mobility planning documents using a structured
process and a participatory approach; and (ii) the carrying out of sector-specific capacity
building programs.
3. 
Strengthening local capacity to implement and monitor urban transport infrastructure and
systems via municipally-owned enterprises.
Part 3: Improving the level of service of urban transport on targeted corridors
Carrying out of a program of Eligible Sub-projects in Participating Cities for the financing of urban
transport corridors to improve the level of service of urban transport for users.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with
financial management, procurement and environmental and social management systems
acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which
are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the principles
of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability; and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program are
identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an informed
decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out
the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Program Institutions
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall maintain
the following institutional arrangements throughout the implementation of the Program and
as further set out in the Program Operations Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any of such arrangements if, in the opinion
of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying
out of the Program or the achievement of the objective thereof.
DDUT
The DDUT shall be responsible for the monitoring of day-to-day implementation of the
Program, the preparation of the Program's annual progress reports, and consolidation of
financial statements, as further set out in the Program Operations Manual. The Borrower
shall maintain throughout the implementation of the Program the DDUT with staff and
resources satisfactory to the Bank.
-6-
2. 
Manual
The Borrower shall adopt the Program Operations Manual and carry out the Program in
accordance with the Program Operations Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of said Manual if, in the
opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Program or the achievement of the objective thereof.
3. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall carry
out the Action Plan, or cause the Action Plan to be carried out in accordance with the
schedule set out in the said Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost USD 50,000,000 equivalent or
more per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost USD 30,000,000 equivalent or more per
contract; (3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost USD 20,000,000 equivalent or more
per contract; or (4) consultants' services, estimated to cost USD 15,000,000 equivalent or
more per contract.
Section III. 
Pro2ram Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare Program
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each
Program Report shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section L.A of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-7-
C. 
Verification Protocol
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out verification missions at least annually, in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, through the IGAT or independent verification
agencies the Bank has confirmed in writing to be acceptable, that, for the verification of
achievement of DLRs I through DLR 7 which are set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2
of this Schedule, and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) calendar days after the
verification of compliance of said DLRs, a report on the results of said verification of
compliance process of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2. 
Such annual verifications will be based on a review of the documentation available at the
Mol, at the municipal level and during on-site verification missions.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower to: (a) repay the Preparation
Advance; (b) pay the Front-end Fee; (c) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar
premium; and (d) finance the Program Expenditures, on the basis of the results
("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as measured
against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth
in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
-8-
Category 
Disbursement Linked Result 
Amount of the Loan
(including 
(as applicable) 
Allocated
Disbursement 
(expressed in USD)
Linked Indicator as
applicable)
(1) 
DLI 
#1: 
DLR#1.1: 
Sector-wide 
M&E 
4,500,000
Strengthened 
needs have been identified, and a
monitoring 
and 
strengthened central computer-
evaluation 
(M&E) 
based M&E system has been
system for the urban 
designed (in CY16)
transport sector
DLR#1.2: 
Strengthened 
M&E 
5,000,000
system has been installed as per
specified 
requirements, 
and
tested in at least 3 cities (in
CY17)
DLR#1.3: 
Strengthened 
M&E 
10,000,000
system has been implemented in
at least 3 additional cities, review
of the system has been carried
out, and required changes and
future needs have been identified
(in CY18)
DLR#1.4: Revised M&E system 
5,000,000
has been implemented in at least
3 additional cities (in CY19)
(2) 
DLI 
#2: 
DLR#2.1: The Urban Transport 
10,000,000
Strengthened 
Urban 
Fund's institutional and financial
Transport Fund 
arrangements are in place (in
CY16)
DLR#2.2: The Urban Transport 
15,000,000
Fund has started to assume its
intended functions (in CY17)
DLR#2.3: The Urban Transport 
5,000,000
Fund has continued to assume its
intended functions (in CY18)
DLR#2.4: The Urban Transport 
5,000,000
Fund has continued to assume its
intended functions (in CY19)
(3) DLI #3: Number 
DLR#1.1: 1 in CY16 
8,340,000
of 
operational
Associations 
of
Urban 
DLR#1.2: 2 in CY17 
8,330,000
Agglomerations
DLR#1.3: 3 in CY18 
8,330,000
-9-
DLR#1.4: 3 in CY19 
0.00
(4) DLI #4: Number 
DLR#1.1: 5 in CY16 
15,000,000
of 
urban 
mobility
master plans prepared 
DLR#1.2: 6 in CY17 
7,500,000
using 
a 
structured
process 
and 
a 
DLR#1.3: 6 in CY18 
0.00
participatory
approach 
DLR#1.4: 7 in CY19 
7,500,000
(5) DLI #5: Number 
DLR#1.1: 2 in CY16 
0.00
of 
operational
municipally-owned 
DLR#1.2: 3 in CY17 
12,500,000
urban 
transport
enterprises 
DLR#1.3: 4 in CY18 
12,500,000
DLR#1.4: 4 in CY19 
0.00
(6) 
DLI 
#6: 
DLR#1.1: 0 in CY16 
0.00
Percentage of Priority
Program of Corridors 
DLR#1.2: 10 in CY17 
10,000,000
completed and open
to traffic 
DLR#1.3: 20 in CY18 
10,000,000
DLR#1.4: 30 in CY19 
10,000,000
(7) 
DLI 
#7: 
DLR#1.1: 0 in CY16 
0.00
Percentage 
of
corridors 
in 
the 
DLR#1.2: 30 in CY17 
10,000,000
Priority Program of
Corridors 
supported 
DLR#1.3: 60 in CY18 
10,000,000
under the 
Program
that 
meet 
their 
DLR#1.4: 90 in CY19 
10,000,000
Objective 
in
Reduction of Urban
Transport 
Journey
Time
(8) Front-end Fee to 
Not applicable 
500,000
be paid pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
-10-
(9) Interest Rate Cap 
Not applicable
or Interest Rate Collar
premium to be paid
pursuant to Section
2.08(c) 
of 
this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section 4.05 of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, for payments for Program
Expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 50,000,000 may be made for such
payments made prior to this date but on or after June 24, 2014; and
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (7), until and unless the Borrower has
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said DLR has been achieved; such
evidence to be verified in accordance with the terms of the Verification Protocol.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw:
(i) an amount not to exceed USD 50,000,000 as an advance; provided, however, that if any
of the DLRs set forth in the table in Part A.2 of this Section in the opinion of the Bank, is
not achieved (or only partially achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund
such advance or portion of such advance as determined by the Bank to the Bank promptly
upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank
shall cancel the amount so refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance
under any Category shall be permitted only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section:
(a) 
Subject to the provisions of Part B.3(b) of this Section, if the Bank is satisfied that
any DLR (other than forDLI#1 and DLI #2) has been partially achieved, provided
that, at a minimum, the Baseline Value for said DLR has been exceeded, the Bank
may authorize the withdrawal of a portion of the amount of the unwithdrawn
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR in accordance with the following
formula:
Loan amount allocated to the DLI divided by the number (or percentage points for
DLI#6 and DLI#7) by which the DLI end-line value for CY1 9 exceeds the Baseline
Value multiplied by the number (or percentage points for DLI#6 and DLI#7) by
which the actual result achieved exceeds the results achieved in the previous year.
-11-
(b) 
if the Bank is not satisfied that any of the DLRs have been achieved by the date by
which the said DLR is set to be achieved, or if a DLR has been exceeded, the Bank
may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to:
(i) authorize the withdrawal of such amounts to be calculated in accordance with
the formula set out in the Section IV.B.3(a) immediately above up to the maximum
unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to the applicable Category
which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of said
DLR; (ii) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to
said DLR to any other DLR, or vice versa within the limits of such DLI; and/or (c)
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR, if
applicable.
4. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after the Closing
Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of Program Expenditures paid
by the Borrower, exclusive of any such expenditures financed by any other financier or by
the Bank or the Association under any other loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the Withdrawn
Loan Balance.
-12-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2021 
2.50%
through July 15, 2040
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
-13-
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated October 23, 2015 and referred to in Section
I.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1,
2012, and revised July 10, 2015.
3. 
"Associations of Urban Agglomerations" means the Etablissements de Coopiration
Intercommunale, institutional arrangements for inter-municipal cooperation as introduced
in 2008 and governed by Law No.113.14 (loi organique relative aux communes), or any
other similar arrangement satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
"Baseline Value" means, for the purpose of Section IV.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, the following baseline results as measured against the DLI for each DLR:
(i) 'Current M&E system is paper-based and limited in scope and depth' for DLI #1; (ii)
'The Urban Transport Fund's institutional and financial arrangements are not yet fully in
place' for DLI #2; (iii) 0 for DLI #3; (iv) 3 for DLI #4; (v) 2 for DLI #5; (vi) 0 for DLI #6;
and (vii) 0 for DLI #7.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"CY" means the calendar year starting on January I and ending on December 31 of each
year.
7. 
"DDUT" means Division des Deplacements Urbains et des Transports, the Division of
Urban Mobility and Transport within DGCL at Mol, or any successor thereto satisfactory
to the Bank.
8. 
"DGCL" means the Direction Gnerale des Collectivitis Locales, the General Directorate
of Local Governements within Mol.
9. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
10. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV. All
quantitative DLRs are cumulative.
-15-
11. 
"Eligible Sub-projects" means sub-projects identified in the Priority Programs of Corridors
determined eligible in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Program Operations
Manual.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"IGAT" means Inspection Gendrale de l'Administration Territoriale, the inspection unit
within the Mol.
14. 
"Mol" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Objective in Reduction of Urban Transport Journey Time" means the objectives in
reduction of urban transport journey time set out in the study underlying the Priority
Programs of Corridors in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
16. 
"Participating Cities" means the cities of more than 100,000 inhabitants determined
eligible in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Program Operations Manual.
17. 
"Priority Programs of Corridors" means the specific program of subprojects of urban
transport corridors to be supported by Urban Transport Fund Committee and adopted by
the Borrower, which includes a minimum of cumulative length of 20 km of urban transport
corridors.
18. 
"Program Area" means the Borrower's regions of B6ni Mellal-Kh6nifra, Casablanca-
Settat, Drda-Tafilalet, F&s-Mekn&s, Marrakech-Safi, Oriental, Rabat-Sald-Kdnitra, Souss-
Massa and Tanger-Tdtouan-Al Hoce*fma.
19. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's systems
for the Program referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"Program 
Operations 
Manual" means the manual 
setting forth the technical,
administrative, environmental, social and fiduciary procedures applicable to the Program
and the technical standards for the implementation of the transport corridors, to be adopted
by the. Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
21. 
"Urban Transport Fund" means the Fonds d'Accompagnement des Reformes du Transport
Routier Urbain et Interurbain, a special purpose account established pursuant to the 2007
Budget Law, as amended in 2014.
22. 
"Verification Protocol" means the verification protocol referenced in Section III.C of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as set out in terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
-16-
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I of this Section II), is
modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
-17-
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
11. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
