LOAN NUMBER 8571-EG
Loan Agreement
(First Fiscal Consolidation, Sustainable Energy and Competitiveness
Programmatic Development Policy Financing)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8571-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
Oe.C e PC \A , 2015, entered into between ARAB
REPUBLIC 
OF 
EGYPT 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing
in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided
to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -GENERAL 
CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion Dollars ($1,000,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and
the amount outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal
to the Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 82 of the General Conditions) for the Loan
Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
2.10. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of
handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect to the Loan.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General Conditions,
this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that all
necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.
5.02. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program, and the adequacy of the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework, including through the adoption of a value
added tax regime, are acceptable to the Bank.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement, or such later date as may be established by the Bank in accordance
with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as the
Borrower's Representative.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of International Cooperation
-4-
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable Address: 
Facsimile:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
(202) 2391-2815
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
(202) 2391-5167
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
eop 
IZIv 
at. %aXas of the day and year first above
written. 
4"
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EG 
T
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Title: 
Y)Svo
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
4-ri 
LA-A
Title: (?-h3y)w 
Q
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section 1. 
Actions under the Proeram
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: (i) the decree
promulgating Law No. 96 of 2015 has been issued which amends the Income Tax Law by
unifying the top income tax rate for all economic actors operating in the Borrower's territory;
(ii) the decree promulgating Law No. 32 of 2015, endorsing the national budget for FY16, has
been issued which includes administrative instructions to all government budgetary entities to
contain the wage bill; (iii) the Ministerial Decree No. 515 of 2015 has been issued which
mandates the publication of the Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy; (iv) the Prime
Ministerial Decree No. 2259 of 2015 has been issued for implementing the second annual
electricity tariff adjustment as part of a five year tariff reform plan outlined in the Prime
Ministerial Decree No. 1257 of 2014 to reform the gas and electricity subsidy; (v) the decree
promulgating Law No. 87 of 2015 has been issued mandating the promotion of competition in
the electricity sector and the separation of the Egyptian Electricity Transmission Company;
(vi) the Cabinet has endorsed a draft gas law that provides for open access to the gas
infrastructure and the establishment of an independent gas sector regulator; (vii) (a) the decree
promulgating Law No. 203 of 2014 has been issued for the stimulation of producing electricity
from renewable energy sources; (b) the Egyptian Electric Utility and Consumer Protection
Regulatory Agency has issued interim licenses to ten (10) private developers pursuant to Law No.
203/2014; (viii) the decree promulgating Law No. 17 of 2015 and the Prime Ministerial Decree
No. 
1820 of 2015 have been issued which, respectively, introduced and implemented
amendments to the Investment Guarantees and Incentives Law defining investor rights and
improving investment facilitation services; (ix) the Prime Ministerial Decree No. 2807 of 2015
has been issued launching the reform of the industrial licensing regime including setting the
principles of the reform; and (x) draft executive regulations has been submitted to the Prime
Minister to implement Law No. 56 of 2014 which introduced amendments to the Competition
Law to enhance anti-cartel policy to prosecute the most harmful competition offences.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional arrangements as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
$997,500,000
4-
(2) Front-end Fee 
$2,500,000
(3) Amount due pursuant to Section
2.08(c) of this Agreement 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$1,000,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts.
I. 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in
Dollars ("Foreign Currency Deposit Account"), on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the
Foreign Currency Deposit Account. The Borrower shall ensure that upon each
deposit of an amount of the Loan into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an
equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
I. 
have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank;
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4)
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Foreign Currency
Deposit Account and its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2017.
SCHEDULE2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February I and August 1
Beginning February 1, 2021 
1.67%
through and including February 1, 2050
On August 1, 2050 
1.47%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-8-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either- (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Cabinet" means the Borrower's Council of Ministers.
2. 
"Competition Law" means Law No. 3/2005 on the Protection of Competition and
Prohibition of Monopolistic Practices, as amended, of the laws of the Borrower.
3. 
"Egyptian Electric Utility and Consumer Protection Regulatory Agency" means the
Borrower's electric utility and consumer protection regulatory agency established and
operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
4. 
"Egyptian Electricity Transmission Company" 
means the Borrower's electricity
transmission company established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower, or
any successor thereto.
5. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
-10-
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
6. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year covering a period of twelve (12)
months commencing on July I of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the
succeeding calendar year.
7. 
"Foreign Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part D.1 of Section
II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
8. 
"General Authority for Investment and Free Zones" or "GAFI" means the Borrower's
general authority for investment and free zones established and operating pursuant to the
laws of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank for 
Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 
12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Income Tax Law" means Law No. 91/2005 on Income Taxation, as amended, of the
laws of the Borrower.
11. 
"Investment Guarantees and Incentives Law" means Law No. 8/1997 on Investment
Guarantees and Incentives, as amended, of the laws of the Borrower.
12. 
"Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy" means a strategy approved and published by
the Ministry of Finance that outlines the Borrower's borrowing plans covering three years
and measures to be adopted to improve the public debt management portfolio.
13. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor
thereto.
14. 
"Ministry of Trade and Industry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Trade and Industry,
or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated November 12, 2015, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
16. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
-12-
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management,
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8- 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
I1. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
-13-
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified
to read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the
word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
