OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8538-CO
Loan Agreement
(First Sustainable Development and Green Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated D"1e6f I' 
, 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2015, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide
this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred thirty seven million seven
hundred thousand Euro (E637,700,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE II -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
-2-
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
-3-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 Bogoti D.C Piso 3'
E-Mail: Desmin@minhacienda.gov.co
Facsimile: (571) 350 9344
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
-
D 
00 
C. 
as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
ByA
Authorized Representative
Name: 
U__f___ 
__Sanenn
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
-
VM6IZ
Title:__ 
1 
_ _
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Loca 
oOSW)
Title:w1k!4. Kq!1
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions to be taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
As a part of the National Development Plan, the Borrower set forth a green growth
strategy which, inter alia: (i) defines guidelines for developing and improving
public transportation systems; (ii) entitles territorial entities (including districts and
municipalities) to establish new funding resources for public transportation
systems and infrastructure for non-motorized transportation; and (iii) provides
additional financial resources to the FENOGE, as evidenced, respectively, by
articles 32, 33, 34 and 190 of Law No. 1753, dated June 9, 2015, published in the
Official Gazette on June 9, 2015.
2. 
The Borrower adopted a regulation to update the quality parameters for diesel fuel
at the national level, with the objective of reducing toxic emission in air
contamination, as evidenced by Resolution No. 90963, dated September 10, 2014,
issued jointly by the Borrower's Ministry of Mines and Energy and the Ministry
of Environment and Sustainable Development, published in the Official Gazette
on September 11, 2014.
3. 
The Borrower established parameters, limits and procedures for the discharge of
treated wastewater originating from selected agricultural, industrial, commercial
and service activities, with the objective of reducing the overall pollution of water
bodies, as evidenced by Resolution No. 631, dated March 17, 2015, issued by the
Borrower's Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development, published in
the Official Gazette on April 18, 2015.
4. 
The Borrower established a set of rules, including quality parameters, regulating
the re-usage of treated wastewater for selected industrial and agricultural
activities, as evidenced by Resolution No. 1207, dated July 25, 2014, issued by
the Borrower's Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development, published
in the Official Gazette on August 13, 2014.
5. 
The Borrower established a methodology for the formulation, implementation,
evaluation, management, control and update of PGIRSs by municipalities,
districts and other selected local entities within its territory, as evidenced by
Resolution No. 754, dated November 25, 2014, issued jointly by the Borrower's
Ministry of Housing, City and Territory and the Ministry of Environment and
Sustainable Development, published in the Official Gazette on December 1, 2014.
-6-
6. 
The Borrower established a set of incentives to promote the recycling of solid
waste, including an additional fee to be charged per ton of solid waste finally
disposed in sanitary landfills, as evidenced by Article 88 of Law No. 1753, dated
June 9, 2015, published in the Official Gazette on June 9, 2015.
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Euro)
(1) Single Withdrawal 
637,700,000
Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT 
637,700,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower;
and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
-7-
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is October 31, 2016.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on April 15,
2035.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
- 10-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2. 
"FENOGE" means Fondo de Energias No Convencionales y Gesti6n Eficiente de
la Energia, the Borrower's Fund for Non-Conventional Energy and Efficient
Energy Management, aimed at financing alternative energy sources and an
efficient energy management, as established pursuant to article 10 of Law No 1715
of May 13, 2014, published in the Official Gazette on of May 13, 2014.
3. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
4. 
"National Development Plan" means the National Development Plan 2014-2018,
approved by the Borrower through article 1 of Law No. 1753, dated June 9, 2015,
published in the Official Gazette on June 9, 2015.
5. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial.
6. 
"PGIRSs" means the Integrated Management of Solid Waste Plans (Planes para
la Gesti6n Integral de Residuos Solidos) to be developed by the Borrower's
municipalities and districts with the purpose of regulating the integrated
management of solid waste at the local and regional level (as applicable), as
established pursuant to article 8 of Decree No. 1713, dated August 6, 2002 (as
subsequently amended), issued by the President of the Republic of Colombia and
published in the Official Gazette on August 7, 2002.
7. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
support the Borrower's overarching green growth strategy through: (i) establishing
a set of policy and institutional measures for green growth in transport, energy,
- 11 -
environmental health and disaster risk management; and (ii) 
improving
environmental quality by reducing PM2.5 in the air; strengthening regulatory and
economic instruments for reducing water pollution; increasing capacity for solid
waste disposal and enhancing waste recycling, as the same is referred to in the
letter dated August 20, 2015 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance
from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
8. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
- 12 -
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
- 13 -
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after
the word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
- 14 -
