OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8353-BR
Loan Agreement
(Espirito Santo Integrated Sustainable Water Management Project -
Programa de Gestdo Integrada das Aguas e da Paisagem do Espirito Santo)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO
Dated 
,g 
, 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
a 
rAf 2015, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") and the STATE OF
ESPIRITO SANTO (the "Borrower"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred twenty five million
Dollars ($225,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its
Secretary of Finance.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall:
-2-
(a) 
through C-GIP, coordinate the carrying out of the Project and carry out
Part 4 of the Project;
(b) 
through SEAMA, carry out Parts 1 (excluding 1 (g)) and 3 (a) of the
Project; and
(c) 
cause:
(i) 
CESAN to carry out Parts 1 (g) and 2 of the Project; and
(ii) 
INCAPER to carry out Part 3 (b) of the Project;
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that
CESAN and/or INCAPER shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations
under the pertinent Subsidiary Agreement, so as to affect materially and adversely,
in the opinion of the Bank, the Borrower's ability to perform its obligations under
this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any
of the events specified in paragraph 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of 120 days after notice of the event has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a) 
that the Borrower, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued
by the Borrower's counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicates that the
CESAN Subsidiary Agreement and the INCAPER Subsidiary Agreement
have been duly authorized or ratified by, executed and delivered on behalf
of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with its respective terms;
-3-
(b) 
that CESAN and INCAPER, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the
Bank, issued by CESAN and INCAPER's respective counsels, acceptable
to the Bank, indicate that its pertinent Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf of CESAN and
INCAPER and is legally binding upon CESAN and INCAPER, all as the
case may be, in accordance with its respective terms; and
(c) 
that the Loan has been duly registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's address is:
Govemo do Estado do Espirito Santo
Praga Joao Climaco, s/n - PalAcio Anchieta
29015-110 Vit6ria, Espirito Santo
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-27) 3636-1036
With copy to:
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Orgamento e Gestdo
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Intemacionais
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco K - 50 andar
70040-906 Brasilia, DF
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
Secretaria da Fazenda
Av. Jer6nimo Monteiro, 96 - 70 andar
29010-002 Vit6ria, Espirito Santo
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-27) 3636-3885
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
6W&ULe,_ &4Y 
, as
of the day and year first above written. 
/1
INTERNATIONAL B 
K FOR
RECONSTRUCTIO 
D DEV 
OPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF ESPiRITO SANTO
By 
I, 
IA 
\
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve sustainable water resources
management, and (b) increase access to sanitation, in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Integrated Water Management and Disaster Risk Management
Improve water resource management and metropolitan coordination and planning
mechanisms for the management of urban water, and develop adequate planning and
monitoring instruments for risk reduction as well as preparedness and response to adverse
natural events in the Borrower's territory, by:
(a) 
Developing a State Water Resources Management Plan.
(b) 
Developing and/or revising River Basin Management Plans for the River
Basins.
(c) 
Strengthening the Borrower's hydrological and water quality monitoring
network and institutional capacity by, inter alia, (i) expanding and
upgrading 
the Borrower's 
hydrological 
monitoring 
network, 
and
(ii) expanding the Borrower's capacity to monitor its water sources and
coastal pollution for water resources planning by establishing a water
quality analyses 
laboratory 
within 
SEAMA, 
and 
strengthening
environmental and water resources management.
(d) 
Strengthening coastline management by implementing the Borrower's
coastline modeling system.
(e) 
Mapping groundwater resources by developing an online platform for
individual self-reporting of well and groundwater usage in the Borrower's
territory.
(f) 
Strengthening 
SEAMA 
by 
(i) 
developing 
a state 
environmental
management plan, (ii) providing training on environmental and water
resources management and on integrated urban water management,
(iii) developing studies on, and designs for, the development of an
environmental management information system, and (iv) acquiring
equipment for SEAMA's environmental management information system.
(g) 
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity in formulating state and municipal
public policies in integrated urban water management in the GVMR.
-6-
(h) 
Strengthening the Borrower's disaster risk management capacity by, inter
alia: (i) developing methodologies and guidelines for assessing hazard,
vulnerability and risk; (ii) developing guidelines for incorporating risk
into territorial planning and public investments, including the carrying out
of workshops; (iii) designing and implementing an integrated information
system to identify and monitor risks; (iv) strengthening the State Civil
Defense System and the State Monitoring and Alert Center; and
(v) establishing an integrated operations center.
Part 2: Efficient Water Supply Services and Increased Access to Sanitation
Increase the efficiency of water supply services and the coverage of sewage
collection and treatment services in the Borrower's territory by, inter alia:
(a) 
Developing an operational efficiency strategic plan for CESAN.
(b) 
Carrying out: (i) sewerage investments for wastewater collection and
treatment in Selected Urban Areas, and (ii) its Household Sewerage
Connection Program, including supervision thereof.
Part 3: Watershed Management and Restoration of Forest Cover
Improve the quality of surface and coastal waters through coordinated
interventions in selected watersheds in the Borrower's territory by, inter alia:
(a) 
Inducing land use change in selected watersheds by supporting and
extending implementation of, and strengthening the Borrower's capacity
in implementing, Reflorestar.
(b) 
Implementing the Mangarai River Pilot aimed at reducing sediment load
originating in the Mangarai River Sub-watershed, by combining
reforestation and improved land management (through Reflorestar) with
interventions that include improvements to roads' construction, operation
and management, as well as to water supply, sanitation and solid waste in
the Mangarai River Sub-watershed, including impact evaluations of
selected interventions.
Part 4: Project Management, Supervision and Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity in Project management and
implementation, including the provision of training and technical
assistance for the carrying out of activities associated with Project
execution, monitoring and evaluation of the Project and the provision of
technical, administrative and financial management support for Project
supervision.
-7-
(b) 
Strengthening ARSI's capacity by developing an economic and financial
regulatory model for water supply and sewerage services.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project:
(a) 
operate and maintain the Project Steering Committee, with qualified staff
in adequate numbers, funds and resources, acceptable to the Bank, to
enable it to execute its consultative and decision making powers for
carrying out the general supervision of the Project, and for developing
strategies during Project implementation;
(b) 
operate and maintain an Executive Secretariat, headed by the Borrower's
Subsecretaria de Captaqdo de Recursos, to assist the Project Steering
Committee the Coordenagdo Institucional and C-GIP in the carrying out
of its respective functions under the Project, and to be responsible for
accompanying Project implementation and liaising with the Bank on the
Borrower's obligations under the Project, including procurement matters
and implementation of the Procurement Plan (including the use of SEPA);
(c) 
operate and maintain SEG, with qualified staff in adequate numbers, funds
and resources, acceptable to the Bank, to enable it to carry out:
(i) the coordination of the Project in its capacity as the Coordenaqdo
Institucional; and
(ii) the necessary budget planning in accordance with the plans approved
by the Project Steering Committee and requested by C-GIP and the
arrangements for budgeting and transferring funds and resources to
enable the execution of the Project pursuant to C-GIP's requests;
(d) 
operate and maintain C-GIP within the Coordenaqdo Institucional with
qualified staff in adequate numbers headed by a project coordinator, funds
and resources, acceptable to the Bank, to enable C-GIP to discharge its
responsibilities under the Project which include, inter alia, the overall
executive coordination of the Project, management, planning, oversight,
evaluation and dissemination of results, financial management under the
Project; and
(e) 
operate and maintain the Project Management Unit within C-GIP, with
qualified staff in adequate numbers (including, inter alia, a project
-9-
manager, one staff to carry out administrative-financial management
responsibilities, one staff to carry out procurement, and one staff to carry
out environmental and social supervision), funds and resources, acceptable
to the Bank, to enable the Project Management Unit to discharge its
responsibilities which include, inter alia, the carrying out of the financial
management aspects of the Project and the overall management,
coordination, execution, procurement, supervision, and monitoring and
evaluation of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Steering Committee, establish, and
thereafter operate and maintain, until completion of the Project, a Special Bidding
Commission, with: (a) functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank,
including the responsibility to ensure the carrying out of the procurement aspects
under the Project; and (b) adequate professional and administrative assistance, and
consisting of representatives from CESAN, SEAMA, SECONT, SEDURB,
SEPAM, Subsecretaria de Estado de Saneamento e Habitaqdo and the Executive
Secretariat.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause CESAN and INCAPER to maitain adequate staff in
sufficient numbers, acceptable to the Bank, to carry out the activities under the
Project which fall within their respective administrative jurisdiction, and to
operate, at all times during Project implementation, with powers, functions,
capacity and resources satisfactory to the Bank to discharge such functions under
the Project in accordance with the respective Subsidiary Agreement, the
Operational Manual and the pertinent provisions of this Agreement.
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out Parts 1 (excluding 1 (g)) and 3 (a) of the Project, and
shall cause CESAN and INCAPER to carry out the activities under the Project
which fall within their respective administrative jurisdiction, in accordance with
the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:
(a) detailed description of the roles and responsibilities of CESAN, INCAPER,
SEAMA, Coordenaqdo Institucional, C-GIP, Executive Secretariat, and Project
Steering Committee; 
(b) specific details on monitoring and evaluation
responsibilities under the Project, including data collection requirements, and
timing; (c) implementation arrangements, including financial management and
procurement arrangements and guidelines; (d) the monitoring indicators for the
Project; and (e) a summary of the environmental and social procedures and
instruments adopted by the Borrower, CESAN and INCAPER. In the event that
any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
-10-
5. 
(a) 
For the purpose of carrying out Part 3 (a) of the Project, and prior to the
provision of any Environmental Services, the Borrower shall, through
SEAMA, enter into an Environmental Services Agreement with each Land
User on terms and conditions, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include,
inter alia, the obligation of said Land User to comply with the pertinent
provisions set forth in this Agreement, including compliance with the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the provisions set forth in Section I.C of
this Schedule, as applicable.
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
each Environmental Services Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any
Environmental Services Agreement or any of their provisions thereof.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of Parts 1 (g) and 2 of the Project by CESAN, and of
Part 3 (b) of the Project by INCAPER, the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan available to CESAN and to INCAPER, respectively, under a
separate Subsidiary Agreement entered into between the Borrower and each
CESAN and INCAPER (the "CESAN Subsidiary Agreement" and the "INCAPER
Subsidiary Agreement", respectively), all under terms and conditions approved by
the Bank, which shall include:
(a) 
the obligation of CESAN and INCAPER to: (i) carry out the activities
which fall within its respective administrative jurisdiction under the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank (as the case may be), including in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) maintain adequate
staff in sufficient numbers to carry out its respective parts of the Project,
with powers, functions, capacity and resources satisfactory to the Bank to
discharge such functions under the Project in accordance with the pertinent
Subsidiary Agreement and the Operational Manual; (iii) comply with the
pertinent provisions of this Agreement as applicable to CESAN and/or
INCAPER; (iv) provide promptly, as needed, the resources required for
the carrying out of its respective parts of the Project; (v) (1) carry out
certain procurement responsibilities for procuring the goods, works, non-
consulting services and consultants' services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan transferred to CESAN and/or INCAPER in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; and (2) have the
procurement of those goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants' services audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
- 11 -
Bank, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and
furnish the resulting audit report to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of each one fiscal year of the Borrower; (vi) maintain procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of their respective parts of the Project
and the achievement of its objectives; (vii) (1) maintain a simplified
financial management system and records in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to
their respective parts of the Project; and (2) at the Bank's or the
Borrower's request, have the resulting financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank; (viii) enable the Borrower and/or the Bank to inspect the carrying
out of its respective parts of the Project, its respective operations and any
relevant records and documents; and (ix) prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower and/or the
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and
(b) 
the Borrower's rights to protect its interests and those of the Bank,
including the right to suspend or terminate the right of CESAN and/or
INCAPER to use the proceeds of the Loan transferred to CESAN and/or
INCAPER, or obtain a refund of all or any part of such amount of the Loan
then withdrawn, upon CESAN and/or INCAPER's failure to perform any
of its obligations under the respective Subsidiary Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
pertinent Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Subsidiary Agreement or any of their
provisions thereof.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-12-
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
Environmental Management Framework and Environmental Management
Plan
The Borrower shall implement Parts 1 (excluding 1 (g)) and 3 (a) of the Project,
and cause CESAN and INCAPER to carry out the activities which fall within its
respective administrative jurisdiction under the Project, in accordance with the
Environmental Management Framework and Environmental Management Plan, all
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Involuntary Resettlement Framework and Involuntary Resettlement Plan
(a) 
The Borrower shall implement Parts 1 (excluding 1 (g)) and 3 (a) of the
Project, and cause CESAN and INCAPER to carry out the activities which
fall within its respective administrative jurisdiction under the Project, in
accordance with the Involuntary Resettlement Framework, and implement
and/or cause to be implemented, the Involuntary Resettlement Plan or the
pertinent resettlement action plan, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower, shall ensure, and/or cause CESAN and INCAPER to
ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of any
Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review
thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the
requirements of the Bank Safeguards Policies then in force and as
applicable.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 calendar days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
- 13-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 calendar days after the end of
each calendar year quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used:
-14-
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as "pregdo
eletr6nico", as provided in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July 17,
2002, under any e-procurement system acceptable to the Bank), subject to
the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents
shall be acceptable to the Bank
(b) Shopping
(c) Framework Agreements
(d) Direct Contracting
(e) Community Participation in Procurement procedures, as set forth in the
Operational Manual
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single Source Selection
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
- 15-
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, consulting
services, non-consulting
services and Training under
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Works under Part 2 of the
Proect133,400,000 
65%
Proj ect
(3) Goods, consulting services,
non-consulting services and 
8,100,000 
80%
Training under Part 2 of the
Project
(4) Goods, works, non-
consulting, consulting
services and Training under
Part 3 (b) of the Project
(5) Environmental Services
Payments under Part 3 (a) 
6,337,500 
50%
of the Project
(6) Goods, consulting services,
non-consulting services and 
23,800,000 
100%
Training under Part 4 of the
Project
(7) Front-end Fee 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
562,500 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(8) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
225,000,000
- 16-
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "Training" means expenditures, other than those for consultants'
services, incurred in connection with the provision of training, including
trainers' fees, logistics, materials, and the reasonable recurrent travel costs
and per diem of participants; and
(b) 
the term "Environmental Services Payment" means the payments made by
SEAMA to Land Users under Reflorestar in exchange for Environmental
Services provided by said Land Users.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after October 1, 2013, for
Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2021. The Bank will only grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that
it agrees with such extension.
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
February 15, 2015 
0.22%
August 15, 2015 
0.22%
February 15, 2016 
1.02%
August 15, 2016 
1.02%
February 15, 2017 
1.02%
August 15, 2017 
1.02%
February 15, 2024 
1.42%
August 15, 2024 
1.42%
February 15, 2025 
1.42%
August 15, 2025 
1.42%
February 15, 2026 
1.42%
August 15, 2026 
1.42%
February 15, 2027 
1.42%
August 15, 2027 
1.42%
February 15, 2028 
3.64%
August 15, 2028 
3.64%
February 15, 2029 
3.64%
August 15, 2029 
3.64%
February 15, 2030 
3.64%
August 15, 2030 
3.64%
February 15, 2031 
3.77%
August 15, 2031 
3.77%
February 15, 2032 
3.77%
August 15, 2032 
3.77%
February 15, 2033 
3.77%
August 15, 2033 
3.77%
February 15, 2034 
3.77%
- 18 -
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
August 15, 2034 
3.77%
February 15, 2035 
4.00%
August 15, 2035 
4.00%
February 15, 2036 
4.00%
August 15, 2036 
4.00%
February 15, 2037 
4.00%
August 15, 2037 
4.00%
February 15, 2038 
4.00%
August 15, 2038 
4.12%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
-19-
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"ARSI" means Agincia Reguladora de Saneamento Bdsico e Infraestrutura Vidria
do Espirito Santo, the Borrower's Regulatory Agency for Water, Sanitation and
Road Infrastructure related to SEDURB, created pursuant to the Borrower's
complementary law No. 477, dated December 29, 2008, as amended to the date of
this Agreement, or any successor thereof.
3. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures,
set forth in the Bank's operational manual and identified as OP/BP 4.01, 4.04, 4.09,
4.10. 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"CESAN" means Companhia Espirito Santense de Saneamento, the Borrower's
sanitation company, created pursuant to the Borrower's law No. 2.282, dated
February 8, 1967, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
6. 
"CESAN Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B. 1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereof.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8. 
"C-GIP" means the Borrower's Coordena(do-Geral de Implementagdo do Projeto
established 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Borrower's 
Decree 
No. 
3450-R, 
dated
December 4, 2013, and referred to in Section I.A.1(d) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereof.
9. 
"Coordenagdo Institucional" means the Borrower's Coordenaqdo Institucional
established 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Borrower's 
Decree 
No. 
3450-R, 
dated
December 4, 2013, and referred to in Section I.A.1(c) (i) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereof.
10. 
"Environmental Management Framework" means the framework adopted by the
Borrower and CESAN 
on October 3, 2013, 
and by INCAPER 
on
October 4, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public
-21-
on the Borrower's website at http://www.meioambiente.es.gov.br/, on CESAN's
website 
at http://www.cesan.com.br/, 
and 
on INCAPER's 
website 
at
http://www.incaper.es.gov.br/, 
which contains the environmental protection
measures in respect of the Project, including: (a) guidelines for works and activities
further detailed and identified during Project implementation, related studies and
policy work; (b) good practices and procedures for treatment of Quilombola
communities in accordance to national and local legislation; (c) the identification
of existing 
environmental conditions 
and potential direct and indirect
environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (d) guidelines
for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation of
environmental management plans, when applicable; (e) the recommendation of
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and (f) measures for
enhancing each identified positive impact, as said framework may be amended
from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan adopted by the Borrower and
CESAN on October 3, 2013, and by INCAPER on October 4, 2013, acceptable to
the Bank, as published and available to the public on the Borrower's website at
http://www.meioambiente.es.gov.br/, 
on 
CESAN's 
website 
at
http://www.cesan.com.br/, 
and 
on 
INCAPER's 
website 
at
http://www.incaper.es.gov.br/, which contains the environmental protection
measures applicable to the Project, including: (a) protection of natural habitats;
(b) forests; (c) pest management; and (d) protection of physical cultural resources,
as said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
12. 
"Executive Secretariat" means the Borrower's secretariat established pursuant to
the Borrower's Decree No. 3450-R, dated December 4, 2013, and referred to in
Section I.A. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"Environmental Services" means the services provided by Land Users including,
inter alia, reforestation, forest conservation, and adoption of environmentally
friendly productive land uses such as agroforestry and/or silvopastoral practices.
14. 
"Environmental Services Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
16. 
"GVMR" means the Greater Vit6ria Metropolitan Region in the Borrower's
territory.
17. 
"Household Sewerage Connection Program" means CESAN's "Programa se Liga
na Rede " dated May 30, 2012, to increase household sewerage connection in the
Borrower's territory.
-22-
18. 
"INCAPER" means Instituto Capixaba de Pesquisa, Assistincia T&nica e
Extensdo Rural, the Borrower's Rural Technical Assistance, Research and
Extension Institute, created pursuant to the Borrower's law No. 3.006, dated
November 11, 1975, as amended to the date of this Agreement, or any successor
thereof.
19. 
"INCAPER Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"Involuntary Resettlement Framework" means the framework adopted by the
Borrower and CESAN on October 3, 2013, and by INCAPER on October 4, 2013,
acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on the Borrower's
website at http://www.meioambiente.es.gov.br/, 
on CESAN's website at
http://www.cesan.com.br/, 
and 
on 
INCAPER's 
website 
at
http://www.incaper.es.gov.br/, 
outlining general implementation procedures,
mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for involuntary resettlement under
the Project, including the procedures for the preparation and implementation of
resettlement plans, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the
Bank's prior approval.
21. 
"Involuntary Resettlement Plan" means the plan adopted by CESAN on October
3, 2013, acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on the
CESAN's website at http://www.cesan.com.br/, for involuntary resettlement under
the Project, and/or any other plan, all prepared following the requirements of the
Involuntary Resettlement Framework, and adopted by the Borrower, CESAN
and/or INCAPER, as the case may be, during Project implementation, acceptable
to the Bank.
22. 
"Land User" means an individual or entity using the land or a land owner providing
Environmental Services, according to the criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual.
23. 
"Mangarai River Pilot" means the Borrower's pilot program to reduce silt loads in
the Magarai River Sub-watershed.
24. 
"Mangarai River Sub-watershed" means the sub-watershed of approximately
17.400 hectares in the Borrower's territory, located within the Santa Maria da
Vit6ria river basin, with 87 percent of said sub-watershed located in the
municipality of Santa Leopoldina and 13 percent of said sub-watershed located in
the municipality of Cariacica.
25. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated February 11, 2014, for
the operation of the Project referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-23-
26. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
27. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 7, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
28. 
"Project Management Unit" means Unidade de Gerenciamento de Projeto - UGP,
the unit established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 3450-R, dated
December 4, 2013, and referred to in Section I.A.1(e) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
29. 
"Project Steering Committee" means Comit Diretivo do Programa de Gestdo
Integrada das Aguas e da Paisagem, the Borrower's committee assigned with
consultative and decision making powers for carrying out the general supervision
of the Project and for establishing strategies during Project implementation as
established 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Borrower's 
Decree 
No. 
3450-R, 
dated
December 4, 2013, and referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
30. 
"Reflorestar" means the Borrower's program of payments for environmental
services established by the Borrower's law No. 9864, dated July 26, 2012.
31. 
"River Basins" means the river basins of Sdo Mateus, Ita6nas and Itapemirim in
the Borrower's territory, and/or any other river basin in the Borrower's territory,
acceptable to the Bank, in addition to, or in substitution of, any of the river basins
referred to herein.
32. 
"River Basin Management Plans" means the plans identifying and targeting
priority investment needs for water resources infrastructure, and developing water
allocation scenarios for River Basins, to be developed or revised under the Project.
33. 
"SEAMA" means Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hidricos,
the Borrower's Secretariat of the Environment and Water Resources, or any
successor thereof.
34. 
"SECONT" means Secretaria de Controle e Transparincia, the Borrower's
Secretariat for Control and Transparency, or any successor thereof.
35. 
"SEDURB" means Secretaria de Estado de Saneamento, Habitaqdo e
Desenvolvimento Urbano, the Borrower's Secretariat of Sanitation, Housing and
Urban Development, or any successor thereof.
-24-
36. 
"SEG" means Secretaria de Estado de Governo, the Borrower's State Secretariat
of Government, or any successor thereof, assigned with the institutional
coordination of the Project pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 3450-R, dated
December 4, 2013, and referred to in Section I.A.l(c) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
37. 
"Selected Urban Areas" means the municipalities of Vila Velha and Cariacica in
GVMR, and nine municipalities located in the interior of the Borrower's territory
in the Caparad region and the Santa Maria da Vit6ria and Jucu river basins,
namely, the municipalities of Ibatiba, Irupi, Dores do Rio Preto, Divino de Sdo
Lourenqo, Itna, Conceiqdo do Castelo, Santa Maria de Jetibca, Marechal
Floriano, Santa Leopoldina, and/or any other municipality in the Borrower's
territory, acceptable to the Bank, in addition to, or in substitution of, any of the
municipalities referred to herein.
38. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's procurement plans execution system.
39. 
"SEPAM" means Secretaria Extraordindria de Projetos Especiais e Articulagdo
Metropolitana, the Borrower's State Secretariat of Special Projects and
Metropolitan Management, or any successor thereof.
40. 
"Special Bidding Commission" means Comissdo Especial de Licitagdo, the
Borrower's commission established by the Borrower's Portaria No. 002-S, dated
February 6, 2014, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
41. 
"State Civil Defense System" means the Borrower's institutional and physical
infrastructure to prepare for, and respond to, disasters and mitigate risks.
42. 
"State Monitoring and Alert Center" means the system used for monitoring natural
hazards and for alerting the population at risk.
43. 
"State Water Resources Management Plan" means the plan establishing strategic
objectives for the Borrower's water resources sector, including identification of
critical areas and specific regional needs in water infrastructure and the necessary
institutional arrangements and guidelines for executing the plan.
44. 
"Subsecretaria de Estado de Saneamento e Habitaqdo" means the Borrower's
subsecretariat for sanitation and housing, established within SEDURB.
45. 
"Subsecretaria de Captaqdo de Recursos " means the Borrower's subsecretariat
for revenue, established within SEPAM.
-25-
46. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means either the CESAN Subsidiary Agreement or the
INCAPER Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, pursuant to Section I.B. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-26-
