OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8539- AM
Loan Agreement
(Third Public Sector Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
/? , 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8539- AM
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
XI , 2015, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty one million Dollars ($21,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are November I and May I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following: namely, that the
Borrower has adopted the Project Operational Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-3-
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia
I Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Telex: 
Facsimile:
243331 LADA SU 
+ 37411800132
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
rA (IIK 
/cHACH.4 Tk >A/
Title: Ayl/i'/T 6 k 
2 F /A/A-&6 E
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: LA1AM E lI4LE1
Title: COU\L ,UJA6
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve quality of the public financial reporting and to
improve access to selected enhanced e-government services.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Public Financial Management Information Systems
1. 
Design, development, and implementation of a Government Financial Management
Information System (GFMIS) through:
(a) development of GFMIS software, IT modules, and toolkits, related to, inter-alia:
budget planning, budget execution, public procurement, debt management, accounting,
budget reporting, and the general ledger; and
(b) (i) acquisition of GFMIS hardware, goods, equipment, ICT licenses, (ii) provision of
training related to the implementation of the GFMIS, and (iii) provision of GFMIS
maintenance.
2. 
Support the Borrower's implementation of public financial management reforms and
change management processes related to public expenditure and budget preparation and
execution, through, inter-alia: (i) the provision of advisory services and technical
assistance to support implementation of financial management reforms; (ii) the carrying
out of capacity building activities for preparation upstream and downstream aspects of
public financial management (budgeting, public accounting and audit); and (iii) the
carrying out of capacity building activities for the roll out of the APSAS.
Part 2. e-Governance Solutions for Improved Service Delivery
1 .
Support the Borrower's e-Governance policy and institutional reforms through, inter-alia:
(i) the review and assessment of existing ICT policies, legal and regulatory frameworks,
and technical standards; (ii) the strengthening of existing, or development of new, policies,
strategies, regulatory frameworks, and technical standards, as recommended by said initial
assessment; (iii) the development of an institutional set up and business model for e-
Governance platforms and e-services; and (iv) the carrying out of capacity building,
training and awareness campaigns activities related to e-Governance platforms and e-
services.
2. 
Support the Borrower's e-Governance platforms and services enhancement through, inter-
alia: (i) the design and implementation of an interoperability platform to obtain data
integration and interconnection across the Borrower's key line agencies (as set forth in the
Project Operational Manual); (ii) 
the carrying out of investments on IT systems
architecture, design, deployment, hardware, and software, including the provision of
technical assistance required therefor; (iii) the establishment of a data center or the upgrade
of the storage capacity of the existing data center; (iv) the upgrade and integration of the
-6-
Borrower's internal electronic management systems for public servants (HRM, EDMS);
and (v) the enhancement of selected e-services.
3. 
Establishment of feed-back mechanisms to facilitate citizens and businesses' access to
government services and address grievances, and to monitor client satisfaction, including
the development of a unified e-services portal which incorporates an integrated feedback
collection mechanism.
Part 3. Capacity Building and Small Capacity Building Interventions
1 .
Strengthen the institutional capacity of the CSC and AAPA, through inter-alia: (i) the
transfer of skills to both entities on the management of information technology, evidence-
based decision making, and consultation and citizen engagement; (ii) the revision and
systemization of CSC's existing civil service training system; (iii) the improvements in
the AAPA's curriculum to meet long term training needs and for continuous training; (iv)
the carrying out of training of trainers and secondment activities for faculty members; (v)
the development of CSC's capacity to conduct training needs assessments based on the
performance assessment results and government strategies; and (vi) the improvement of
AAPA's capacity to deliver high quality continuous training to public servants.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to the PSRC on its coordination role and implementation
of the public sector modernization and governance reforms, including, provision of support
to change management dimension of e-Governance reforms across Borrower's institutions
and carrying out other capacity building interventions across Borrower's institutions
required during Project implementation.
Part 4. Project Management
Provision of (i) administrative support and technical assistance to PMG, and FFPMC in
relation to implementation, 
procurement, 
financial management, 
monitoring and
evaluation of the Project, including inter-alia, the carrying out of: (A) the Project financial
audits, (B) monitoring and evaluation activities, (C) public awareness/communication
campaigns and gender-sensitive consultations; (ii) training to PMG and FFPMC staff; and
(iii) Incremental Operating Costs for the Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower shall:
a) for the purpose of ensuring the proper oversight, coordination and execution of the
Project, vest the overall responsibility for implementation of the Project in the PSRC which
shall: (i) act as the Project Steering Committee; (ii) be headed by the Borrower's Minister-
Chief of the Government Staff, who is also the Project Director; and (iii) be responsible for
providing strategic guidance for the Project and approving the Project Operational Manual,
Project annual budgets, and key financial management and procurement documents.
b) for the purpose of day to day implementation of the Project, operate and maintain the
PMG with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including the
responsibility for developing and updating the Project Operational Manual, providing
advice, support, and technical coordination to the various Borrower's institutions and other
stakeholders participating in the Project and reporting to the PSRC on Project
implementation; consisting of a Project manager and adequate number of staff, all with
terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; and
c) for the purpose of complying with the fiduciary aspects of the Project, vest in FFPMC
the responsibilities of financial management and procurement, and ensure that FFPMC has
adequate number of staff with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank
to fulfill its responsibilities with respect to Project implementation.
2. 
For purposes of carrying out activities under Part 1.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i)
maintain throughout the duration of the Project, a working group (the "GFMIS Working
Group") for the implementation of the GFMIS, responsible for addressing business
requirements of the GFMIS and ICT related issues; (ii) ensure that the contractual
arrangements for the GFMIS include provisions: (A) for the development of a blueprint
which shall be used for software development, testing, and operational acceptance; and (B)
for the obligation to seek the Bank's no-objection to any material change to said blueprint
(as determined by the Bank).
B. 
Project Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall adopt, and immediately thereafter, carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of a manual (the Project Operational Manual), which sets forth, inter
alia: (i) a detailed description of the activities and institutional arrangements; and (ii) the
administrative, budgeting, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow
aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement procedures.
2. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend,
waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Project Operational Manual.
-8-
3. 
In case of a conflict between the terms of the Project Operational Manual and those in this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Section II.A, the Borrower shall
(a) not later than March I of each year of Project implementation, provide the Bank an
annual monitoring, an evaluation report and an updated Procurement Plan; all in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, (b) thereafter, carry out the recommendations set forth
in the pertinent annual report, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review for the Project by
December 28, 2018 (or such later date as the Bank shall establish).
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end
of such period.
-9-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and V of the Consultant Guidelines, and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-consulting Services. The following
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of
goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for procurement of
goods and non-consulting services for the Project, provided that the following
provisions are complied with:
(i) 
entities in which the Borrower owns a majority shareholding shall not be
invited to participate in tenders for the Borrower unless they are and can
be shown to be legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower;
(ii) 
post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract performance,
financial, managerial and technical capabilities of bidders;
(iii) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations;
(iv) 
estimated contract prices shall not be advertised;
(v) 
No bids shall be rejected at bid opening. The opening procedures shall
comply with conditions of section 2.45 of the Procurement Guidelines;
-10-
Procurement Method
(vi) 
no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated price.
Bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions of
Sections 2.61- 2.64 of the Procurement Guidelines are met; and
(vii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or
expressed as a pass/fail criteria; and
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Selection of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
Selection Method
(a) 
Fixed-Budget Selection
(b) 
Least Cost Selection
(c) 
Selection Based on Consultants Qualification
d) 
Single Source Selection of consulting firms
(e) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the selection of Individual Consultants
(f) 
Single Source procedures for the selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-11-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
non-consulting
services, 
and 
consultants'
services, 
Training, 
and 
14,663,500 
100%
Incremental Operating Costs
for Parts 1.2, 2, 3, and 4 of the
Project
(2) 
Goods 
non-consulting
services, 
consultants' 
6,284,000 
100%
services, 
and Training for
activities under Part 1. 1 (a) of
the Project
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
(3) Front-end Fee 
52,500 
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
21.000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
-12-
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall
ensure that adequate financial resources are allocated to ensure the implementation of activities
under Part 1 .1 (b) of the Project.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each November I and May I
Beginning May 1, 2030 through November 1, 
4.76%
2039.
On May 1, 2040 
4.80%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-14-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-16-
implementation, including, inter-alia: non-durable goods (such as, office supply, minor
office equipment, vehicle and equipment maintenance, costs for fuel, literature, field trips,
meetings and in-country travel costs related to the Project (including accommodations,
transportation costs and per diem), FFPMC's and PMG's staff salaries (excluding civil
servants' salaries) staff health insurance and social benefits, communication costs,
reasonable banking charges and media advertisement costs, and other expenses that may
be agreed with the Bank during the Project implementation.
14. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or its legal successor thereto.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated August
21, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the Borrower's operational manual referred to in
Section I.B. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such manual may be updated from time
to time with prior agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"PMG" or "Project Management Group" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. 1.(b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"PSRC" means the Public Sector Reform Commission consisting of representatives from
various government ministries and agencies 
as well as the non-governmental
organizations established pursuant to the Prime Minister's Decree No. 544 dated
September 3, 1999, or any legal successor thereto.
20. 
"Republic of Armenia Government Staff" means the Borrower's Office of the Government
under the Prime Minister, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 726 of May
2, 2002.
21. 
"Training" means expenses incurred by the Borrower (other than those for consultants'
services) in connection with the carrying out of the training activities under the Project
including travel costs and per diem for local trainees and trainers, study tours and
workshops, rental of facilities and equipment and training materials and related supplies.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
-17-
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with
Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
-15-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"AAPA" or the "Armenian Academy of Public Administration" means the Borrower's
legal successor of the School of Management, which was established in accordance with
the Borrower's Decree N240 dated May 24, 1994 as an entity responsible for providing
education and training to civil servants on public administration.
2. 
"APSAS" means the Armenian Public Sector Accounting Standards developed by the MoF
based on International Public Accounting Standards.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"CSC" means the Borrower's Civil Service Council, duly established and operating
pursuant to the requirements of the Civil Service Law No 272 of December 4, 2001.
7. 
"EDMS" or "Electronic Document Management System" means the Borrower's electronic
management system for documents' management, workflow, and storage.
8. 
"FFPMC" means the Foreign Financial Project Management Center within the MoF
established and operating pursuant to the MoF's Decree No. 37 dated March 29, 2000, or
any legal successor thereto.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"GFMIS" or "Government Financial Management Information System" means the
Borrower's system consisting of a series of automation solutions that enable the Borrower
to plan, execute and monitor its budgets and assist it with the compliance of financial
regulations and reporting standards; including supporting decentralized budget operations
through a centralized web-based ICT.
11. 
"HRM" means Human Resource Management.
12. 
"ICT" means Information and Communication Technology.
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable operational costs (which would not
have been incurred absent the Project) incurred by PMG and FFPMC related to Project
