OFFICAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8543-SC
Loan Agreement
(Sustaining Reforms for Inclusive Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated DG6rn#2A 
OF , 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8543-SC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated Decl-, ag 
, 
, 2015, entered into between
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
-2-
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.06 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each
two consecutive Interest Periods shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate
to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.10 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this
-3-
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's minister responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
P.O. Box 313
Liberty House
Victoria Mah&
Republic of Seychelles
Facsimile:
248-422 58 93
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Mahi, Republic of Seychelles, and Maputo, Mozambique, as of the
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
By
\j A 
horized Representative
Name:Je' 1Pru- AtAr)
Title: tP N:ieZ 
OP, E163AWC, -19AbE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
e:___
Title: COV4-my
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
A. 
To raise the efficiency of public expenditure through improving monitoring and
administration of social assistance system, developing a health strategy to sustain
health services for the population at large, and improving teacher management:
1. 
the Borrower's Cabinet has approved a strategic plan and action plan for its agency
responsible for social protection and transferred the ministerial responsibility for
said agency to its minister responsible for social affairs;
2. 
the Borrower had expanded the coverage of the agency responsible for social
protection's management information system to include the data on applicants and
beneficiaries of its sick leave benefits;
3. 
the Borrower's Cabinet has approved the National Health Policy; and
4. 
the Borrower's Cabinet has approved a memorandum for a comprehensive teacher
management policy reform focusing on issues of teacher distribution, training,
career, and performance.
B. 
To facilitate access to credit through the improvement of the credit information
system and establishment of a collateral registry:
5. 
the Borrower's central bank has promulgated regulations to ensure that credit data
is reported on event-basis; and
6. 
the Borrower's Cabinet has approved for submission to the Borrower's National
Assembly a Secure Transaction Bill.
C. 
To improve public investment through the enhancement of public investment
management systems and government supervision of commercial state owned
enterprises:
7. 
the Borrower has established a committee for independent review and selection of
public investment projects, appointed the relevant staff for the purpose of said
committee's operations and the Borrower's Cabinet has approved the guidelines
for preparation and appraisal of public investment projects; and
8. 
the Borrower has approved a revised mandate for Socigtg Seychelloise
d'Investissement, in a manner that clearly defines the unique objectives and
-7-
activities of the institution in relation to the Borrower's other similarly-situated
institutions, all in line with good international practice on corporate governance of
state-owned enterprises.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
4,987,500
(2) Front-end Fee 
12,500
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being
carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account ("Deposit Account") designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that, upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;
-8-
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of
such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
and
3. 
within thirty (30) days of such deposit referred in section D.1 of this Schedule 1,
the Recipient shall provide a written report to the Association of the amount
deposited in the Deposit Account and credited to the Recipient's budget-
management system.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15 
3.33%
beginning February 15, 2028,
through February 15, 2042
On August 15, 2042 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
to the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule; and
(b) 
any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-10-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 11 
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1 .
"Cabinet" means the Borrower's cabinet of ministers.
2. 
"Deposit Account" means the account designated by the Borrower in accordance
with Section II.D of Schedule I to this Agreement.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and
associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
- 12 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and
watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"National Assembly" means the Borrower's national legislative assembly.
6. 
"National Health Policy" means the Borrower's national health policy document
dated June 26, 2015.
7. 
"Secure Transaction Bill" means the Borrower's 2015 legislative bill on secured
transaction endorsed by the Borrower's Cabinet on July 29, 2015.
8. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
- 13 
referred to in the letter dated September 7, 2015, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
9. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
10. 
"Soci6td Seychelloise d'Investissement" means the Borrower's public holding
company incorporated pursuant to the Recipient's Company's Act of 1972 and
operating pursuant to the company's certificate of incorporation, Co.No. 846539-
1, dated May 21, 2008.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above)
is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
-14-
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to
the Loan Agreement."
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
