OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8507-MA
Loan Agreement
(Improving Primary Health in Rural Areas Program)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 2, 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8507-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated July 2, 2015, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million US Dollars, (USD 100,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the program described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program through the MoH in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministbre de l'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
MINFIN 
212-537-67-75-30/31
212-537-76-40-81
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Mohamed Boussaid
Title: Minister of Economy and Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
'Authorized 
epresentative
Name' 
ichael Hamaide
Title: Senior Country Officer
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to expand access to primary healthcare in targeted rural
areas in the Program Area.
The Program consists of the following activities to be implemented in the Program Area:
Part 1: Expanding equitable access to primary care in rural areas
1.Reducing maternal, neonatal, and under five mortality through the implementation of
activities set forth in the Action Plan to Reduce Maternal, Neonatal, and Under Five
Mortality.
2. 
Strengthening the detection and management of non-communicable diseases through the
carrying out of: (i) prevention measures, including the organization of awareness
campaigns on the benefits of a healthy diet and physical activity; (ii) screening measures,
including equipping health centers and mobile teams with screening equipment, training
of health staff at the ESSP-level on screening techniques, and conducting screening
activities; and (iii) strengthening measures, including disseminating standards of care to
all ESSPs and mobile teams, training professionals on standards of care, and providing
health facilities with basic essential drugs.
3. 
Strengthening mobile health coverage through: (i) the provision of 57 equipped mobile
units to be attached to ESSPs in the Program Area; (ii) strengthening of the technical
platform of existing mobile units; and (iii) capacity building for health care providers in
the management of mobile medical units.
Part 2: Improving health system governance at the primary level
1.Provision of support to the MoH in the creation of an incentive mechanism for all health
professionals.
2. 
Improving accountability at the primary health care level through:
(i) 
The expansion of the annual quality assessment tool in the health sector (the
"concours qualite ") at the primary healthcare level in the Program Area, through
the carrying out of annual reviews of the quality assessment tool, the provision of
training, including for the personnel of all the centers that are enrolled; and
publications and dissemination events for an increased number of primary
healthcare facilities, in particular rural ones; and
(ii) 
The establishment of a comprehensive GRM by clarifying the existing institutional
structure and operational arrangements.
3. 
Developing an integrated, computerized and accessible HMIS, including through: (i) the
carrying out of foundational and analytical work, formulation of the data dictionary and
coding standards, formulation of the data model which includes data flows and types of
-6-
data across the health system, and the formulation of national charts of accounts and
statistics; (ii) updating the HMIS Master Plan; and (iii) testing of integrated computerized
systems in one region and central support structures.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with
financial management, procurement and environmental and social management systems
acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which
are designed to ensure that:
1.the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the principles
of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability; and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program are
identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an informed
decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out
the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1.Program Institutions
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall maintain
the following institutional arrangements throughout the implementation of the Program and
as further set out in the Implementation Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any of such arrangements if, in the opinion
of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying
out of the Program or the achievement of the objective thereof.
2. 
Steering Committee and Technical Committee for the Program
The Borrower shall by no later than 4 months after the Effective Date, establish in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter maintain throughout the Program:
(i) a steering committee which shall be chaired by the Secretary General of the MoH and
include directors of each of the relevant MoH departments, and (ii) a technical committee
chaired by the director of DPRF and composed of representatives of each of the relevant
MoH departments.
-8-
3. 
Manual
The Borrower shall adopt an Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank and shall carry out the Program in accordance with such Implementation
Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or
waive any provision of said Manual if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or
waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Program or the
achievement of the objective thereof.
4. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall carry
out the Action Plan, or cause the Action Plan to be carried out in accordance with the
schedule set out in the said Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost USD 50,000,000 equivalent or
more per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost USD 30,000,000 equivalent or more per
contract; (3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost USD 20,000,000 equivalent or more
per contract; or (4) consultants' services, estimated to cost USD 15,000,000 equivalent or
more per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring. Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare Program
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each
Program Report shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section L.A of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under the
Preparation Advance for the Program. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be futrnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
-9-
C. 
Verification Protocol
1.The Borrower shall carry out technical audits at least annually through the IGM or
independent verification agencies that the Bank has confirmed in writing to be acceptable,
for the verification of achievement of DLRs 1 through 7 which are set forth in the table in
Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule, and furnish to the Bank not later than thirty (30) calendar
days after the verification of compliance of said DLRs, a report on the results of said
verification of compliance process of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
2. 
Such annual technical audits will be based on a review of the documentation available
centrally at the MoH and on-site verification in a representative sample of areas targeted
by the Program. The technical audit will verify:
(a) 
With respect to DLIs 1 through 6: The HMIS system and procedures at ESSPs,
hospitals, and provincial directorate levels, and their aggregation at the central
level;
(b) 
With respect to DLIs 1 through 5: The accuracy of the quantity of services as
reported in the HMIS database;
(c) 
With respect to DLI 6: Proof of ESSPs' participation in training sessions and
availability of an action plan to improve quality based on the recommendations
included in the audit report of the "concours qualite~ "; and
(d) 
With respect to DLI 7: Relevant documentation regarding progress in the
development of the HMIS.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1.The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower to: (a) pay the Front-end
Fee; (b) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and (c) finance the
Program Expenditures, on the basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or
"DLRs") 
achieved 
by the 
Borrower, 
as measured 
against specific 
indicators
("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLls"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators 
as applicable) ("Category"), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
-10-
Category 
Disbursement Linked Result 
Amount of the Loan
(including 
(as applicable) 
Allocated
Disbursement 
(expressed in USD)
Linked Indicator as
applicable)
(1) DLI #1: Increase 
DLR#1.1: 0.97% in CY15 
2,329,331
in number of pregnant
women 
receiving 
DLR#1.2: 2.18% in CY16 
2,905,660
antenatal care during
a visit to a rural ESSP 
DLR#1 .3: 3.88% in CYI7 
4,082,333
in the Program Area
DLR#1.4: 5.83% in CY18 
4,682,676
(2) DLI #2: Increase 
DLR#2.1: 1.71% in CYI5 
3,297,521
in 
number 
of
deliveries 
of rural 
DLR#2.2: 3.42% in CY16 
3,297,521
women attended by
skilled 
health 
DLR#2.3: 5.13% in CY17 
3,297,521
personnel 
in public
health facilities in the 
DLR#2.4: 7.26% in CY18 
4,107,437
Program Area
(3) DLI #3: Increase 
DLR#3.1: 1.50% in CYI5 
3,000,000
in number of new
visits 
of 
children 
DLR#3.2: 2.50% in CY16 
2,000,000
under 5 to a rural
ESSP in the Program 
DLR#3.3: 3.50% in CY17 
2,000,000
Area for curative care
DLR#3.4: 5% in CY18 
3,000,000
(4) DLI #4: Increase 
DLR#4.1: 4.09% in CY15 
4,639,818
in number of patients
with 
diabetes 
DLR#4.2: 8.62% in CYI6 
5,138,968
diagnosed and treated
at a rural ESSP in the 
DLR#4.3: 13.10% in CY17 
5,082,246
Program Area
DLR#4.4: 17.63% in CYI8 
5,138,968
(5) DLI #5: Increase 
DLR#5.1: 1.30% in CYI5 
3,023,257
in number of visits to
rural ESSPs in the 
DLR#5.2: 2.30% in CY16 
2,325,581
Program Area
DLR#5.3: 3.30% in CY17 
2,325,581
DLR#5.4: 4.30% in CY18 
2,325,581
(6) DLI #6: % of rural 
DLR#6. 1: 30% in CY1 5 
2,000,000
health centers with
delivery 
services 
DLR#6.2: 40% in CYI6 
2,000,000
(CSCAs) 
in 
the
Program Area 
that 
DLR#6.3: 50% in CY17 
2,000,000
participate 
in 
the
main annual quality 
DLR#6.4: 60% in CY18 
2,000,000
-11-
assessment (concours
qualitd)
(7) 
DLI 
#7: 
DLR#7.1: 'Urbanization' 
5,000,000
Establishment of the 
process, data dictionary and data
HMIS in one region 
model complete;
within the Program
Area 
DLR#7.2: HMIS Masterplan 
5,000,000
updated and validated
DLR#7.3: Data Center is 
7,000,000
operational; regional and
provincial reporting systems (in
one region) are functional
DLR#7.4: Legal documents 
6,750,000
drafted,
HMIS operational in more than
80% of facilities in one region 
_____________
(8) Front-end Fee to 
Not applicable 
250,000
be paid pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(9) Interest Rate Cap 
Not applicable
or Interest Rate Collar
premium to be paid
pursuant to Section
2.08(c) 
of 
this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section 4.05 of the
General Conditions 
______________ 
____________
TOTAL AMOUNT 
_______________100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1.Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, for payments for Program
Expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (7), until and unless the Borrower has
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said DLR has been achieved; such
evidence to be verified in accordance with the terms of the Verification Protocol;
and
(c) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (6), until and unless the Borrower
provides to the Bank the updated CY 2014 baseline value for each DLI for the
Program Area in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
-12-
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw:
(i) an amount not to exceed USD 25,000,000 as an advance; provided, however, that if any
of the DLRs set forth in the table in Part A.2 of this Section in the opinion of the Bank, is
not achieved (or only partially achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund
such advance or portion of such advance as determined by the Bank to the Bank promptly
upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank
shall cancel the amount so refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance
under any Category shall be permitted only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section:
(a) 
if the Bank is satisfied that any DLR has been partially achieved, provided that, at
a minimum, the Baseline Value for said DLR has been exceeded, the Bank may
authorize the withdrawal of a portion of the amount of the Loan then allocated to
said DLR in accordance with the following formula: Loan amount allocated to the
DLR divided by the number of percentage points by which the DLR exceeds the
Baseline Value multiplied by the number ofpercentage points by which the actual
result achieved exceeds the Baseline Value.
(b) 
if the Bank is not satisfied that any of the DLRs have been achieved by the date by
which the said DLR is set to be achieved, or if a DLR has been exceeded, the Bank
may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to:
(i) authorize the withdrawal of such amounts to be calculated in accordance with
the formula set out in the Section IV.B.3 immediately above up to the maximum
amount allocated to the applicable Category which, in the opinion of the Bank,
corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR; (ii) reallocate all or a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR to any other DLR,
or vice versa within the limits of such DLI; and/or (iii) cancel all or a portion of
the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR, if applicable.
4. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after the Closing
Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of Program Expenditures paid
by the Borrower, exclusive of any such expenditures financed by any other financier or by
the Bank or the Association under any other loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the Withdrawn
Loan Balance.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
________________________________(Expressed_as_a_Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2020, 
2.44%
through July 15, 2039 
___________________
On January 15, 2040 
2.40%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-14-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-15-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated February 25, 2015 and referred to in
Section I.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time with
the written agreement of the Bank.
2. 
"Action Plan to Reduce Maternal, Neonatal, and Under Five Mortality" means the action
plan adopted by the Borrower in September 2012 entitled "Plan d'action 2012-2016 pour
acciler la r&duction de la mortal iti maternelle et ndonatale - Fin du compte a~ rebours
2015."
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1,
2012.
4. 
"Baseline Value" or "BV" means the baseline values communicated to the Bank pursuant
to Section IV.B.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Concours qualitd" means the quality competition organized annually between health
facilities involving a self-assessment, in which staff at participating health facilities
complete standardized questionnaires that measure a range of quality indicators (user
satisfaction, care accessibility and availability, rationalized use of resources, security and
responsiveness, leadership, community participation, and institutional functionality), as
well as an audit by peers.
7. 
"CSCA" means Community Health Center with Delivery Unit (Centres de santa avec
module d 'accouchement).
8. 
"CY" means the calendar year starting on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each
year.
9. 
"DHSA" means the hospitals and ambulatory care Division of the MoH (Direction des
H6pitaux et les Soins Ambulatoires),
10. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the tables in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
11. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
-16-
12. 
"DPRF" means the Department of Planning and Financial Resources of the MoH.
13. 
"ESSP" means primary health care facilities (Etablissement de soins de santi primaires).
14. 
"Formula" means the formula set out in the fourth column of the Table set out in Section
IV.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
16. 
"GRM" means a grievance redress mechanism with documented and established
mechanisms to record, address and monitor complaints.
17. 
"HMIS" means an information management system for the health sector.
18. 
"HRH" means human resources management in the health sector.
19. 
"Implementation Manual" means the manual setting forth the technical, administrative and
fiduciary procedures applicable to the Program, to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to
the Action Plan.
20. 
"IGM" means, the inspection unit within the MoH (Inspection Gindrale Ministirielle).
21. 
"MoH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, or any successor thereto.
22. 
"Morocco Medical Waste Regulations" means, collectively, the Arritd for the application
of the recommendations of Dicret No.2-09139 and the Plan National de gestion des
dichets m&dicaux, to be adopted by the Borrower.
23. 
"NCDs" means non-communicable diseases.
24. 
"Program Area" means the Borrower's regions of Doukkala-Abda, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni
Hssen, Marrakech-Tensift-Al Haouz, Meknbs-Tafilalet, Oriental, 
Souss-Massa-Draa,
Tadla-Azilal, Tanger-T6touan, and Taza-Al Hoceima-Taounate.
25. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's systems
for the Program referred to in Section l.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"USD" means US Dollars.
27. 
"Verification Protocol" means the verification protocol set out in Section III.C of Schedule
2 to this Agreement and all other measures set forth in the Implementation Manual.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
-17-
1.Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Section II), is
modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
-18-
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
11. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."~
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
