OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8511-UA
Loan Agreement
(Second Development Policy Loan)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8511-UA
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
- 6 
, 2015, entered into
between 
UKRAINE 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of
Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties
hereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General
Conditions. Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending
agreement.
1.03. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million United States
Dollars ($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02- 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0-25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
205. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa, or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
-3-
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article 11 as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request ofeither
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02 
The Borrower's Address is.
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St,
Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
Facsimile:
(380-44) 425-90-26
(380-44) 277-54-82
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
18 18 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 210 
V-_/, 
ZI/1/as 
of the day and year first above written.
UKRAINE
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
54C§
6
,7 
S
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:_______________
Title: 
(it/ 
t
-6-
SCHEDULE I
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower has introduced rules for transparent appraisal and selection and
predictable financing of public investments for purposes of improving its public
investment management framework, through enactment of Law of Ukraine #288-
VIII "On Amendments to the Budget Code of Ukraine on Public Investment
Projects" dated April 7, 2015 (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy April 25, 2015,
Number 75).
2. 
The Borrower has established a centralized external verification function for
financial disclosures of publicly elected and senior public officials, and provided
for disciplinary and administrative accountability for those officials who fail to
comply with financial disclosure requirements or misrepresent financial
information, through enactment of Law of Ukraine #1700-VII "On Prevention of
Corruption" dated October 14, 2014 (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy October 25,
2014, Number 206).
3. 
The Borrower has expanded the mandate of the Accounting Chamber of Ukraine
to cover external audits of the Borrower's budget revenues, through enactment of
Law of Ukraine #576 - VIll "On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine 'On the
Accounting Chamber"' dated July 2, 2015, (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy
August 8, 2015, Number 145).
4. 
The Borrower has improved transfer pricing legislation and practices in line with
the OECD Guidelines for purposes of reducing tax avoidance, through enactment
of Law of Ukraine #72-VII1 "On Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine
Regarding Improvement of Tax Control of Transfer Pricing" dated December 28,
2014, (Oficial Gazette Golos Ukrainy December 30, 2014, Number 252).
5. 
The Borrower has extended automatic VAT refund procedures and revised
automatic refund eligibility criteria guidelines for purposes of improving VAT
refund processing, through enactment of Law of Ukraine #71-VIHl "On
Amendments to the Tax Code and Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Tax
Reform dated December 28, 2014 (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy December 31,
2014, Number 254).
6 
The Borrower established a deregulation framework, eased licensing and permit
requirements, and harmonized food safety standards and procedures and technical
regulations and conformity assessments with European Union requirements for
-7-
purposes of improving the investment climate, through enactment of Law of
Ukraine # 222-VII "On Licensing ofCertain Types of Entrepreneurial Activities"
dated March 2, 2015 (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy March 28, 2015, Number
56); Law of Ukraine # 124-VIl "On Technical Regulation and Conformity
Assessment" dated January 15, 2015, (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy February
10, 2015, Number 23), Law of Ukraine #191-VIII "On Amendments to Certain
Legislative Acts of Ukraine Regarding Simplification of Running Business
(Deregulation)" dated February 12, 2015 (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy April 4,
2015, Number 61), and Law of Ukraine # 1602-ViI "On Amendments to Certain
Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Food Safety" dated July 22, 2014 (Official Gazette
Golos Ukrainy September 19, 2014, Number 179), Law of Ukraine #289-VillI "On
Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Protection of the Rights of
Investors" dated April 7, 2015, (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy May 13, 2015,
Number 82).
7. 
The Borrower has removed the possibility of counting land as bank capital through
Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine #418 "On State Land Bank
Abolishment" dated September 10, 2014 and through enactment of Law of Ukraine
#1 507-VIl "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine" dated June
17, 2014, (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy, July 8, 2014, Number 127).
8. 
The Borrower: (a) has strengthened the independence of the national regulation of
communal services by removing provisions that allow the Borrower's Cabinet of
Ministers to develop a mechanism for setting utility tariffs below cost-recovery
levels, through enactment of Law of Ukraine #626-VIII "On Amendments to Some
Laws of Ukraine in the Area ofCommunal Services)" dated July 16,2015 (Official
Gazette Golos Ukrainy July 24, 2015, Number 132); and (b) has strengthened the
independence of the national regulation of the energy sector through approval by
the Cabinet of Ministers on July 14, 2015 of the draft Law #2966 "On National
Energy and Utilities State Regulatory Commission" that is compliant with the
European Union's Third Energy Package.
9. 
The Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers has approved the "Gas Sector Reform and
Implementation Plan" through Order number #375-p dated March 25, 2015 to
comprehensively restructure the gas sector, including gradual energy price
increases (and accompanying social assistance measures); incentivizing domestic
production through attracting more private and international investment to the
sector; restructuring of Naftogaz and distribution companies; and improving
governance ofthe sector through introduction of an accelerated gas and heat meters
installation program.
10. 
The Borrower has introduced income testing of the housing and utilities subsidies
and reduced the amount of such housing and utilities privilege benefits, replaced
universal child benefits with a guaranteed minimum income (GMI) supplement for
children of age 0-3, and has reduced the amount of the universal child-birth grant
-8-
benefit, all for purposes of improving the targeting of social assistance to the poor,
through Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers #106 "On Improvement of the Process
of Housing Subsidizing" dated February 28, 2015, and enactment of Law of
Ukraine #221-Vill "On Amendments to Article 5 of the Law of Ukraine "On
Public Social Aid to Poor Families" Regarding Social Protection of Children",
dated March 2, 2015. (Official Gazette Golos Ukrainy, March 20, 2015, Number
50).
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount or the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
498,750,000
(2) 
Front-end Fee 
1.250,000
(3) 
Amount due pursuant to 
0
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
-9-
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
3. 
within thirty (30) days of such deposit, the Borrower shall provide a
written report to the Bank of the amounts deposited in the dedicated
account and credited to the Borrower's budget management system, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2016.
-t0-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
I. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
5.56%
beginning on September 15, 2022
through September 15, 2030
On March 15, 2031 
5.48%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-11-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
S. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-12-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure.
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
_ 
I_ 
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
-13-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
3. 
"Naflogaz" means National Joint Stock Company Naftogaz of Ukraine established
pursuant to the Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers Decree #747 dated May 25, 1998
"On Establishment of National Joint-Stock Company 'Naftogaz of Ukraine"'.
4. 
"OECD Guidelines" means the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development's OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines (2010).
5. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i)
promote good governance, transparency, and accountability in the public sector;
(ii) strengthen the regulatory framework and reduce costs of doing business; and
(iii) reform inefficient and inequitable utility subsidies while protecting the poor;
and set forth or referred to in the letter dated July 24, 2015, from the Borrower to
the Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
6. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section 11 of Schedule I to this Agreement.
7. 
"Third Energy Package" means the European Union's Third Energy Package
adopted in 2009 by the European Parliament and the Council of the European
Union, which consists of a legislative package of measures for an internal gas and
electricity market in the European Union.
-14-
8. 
-VAT" means the Borrower's value added tax.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (DesignatedAccounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Erpenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article 11 are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements, Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows.
.15-
"Section 5.06. Plans, Documents, Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows;
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
II. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement"
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of"Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read as follows.
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
IS. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of"Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after
the word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
.Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement
in support of which the Loan is made."
