OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8509-CN
Loan Agreement
(Poverty Alleviation and Agriculture-Based Industry Pilot and Demonstration in Poor
Areas Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
to 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8509-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
to 
e4CI 2015, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower; on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during Ithe Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to ihis Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rat&.based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth
below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or
the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower,
-3-
the Guarantor and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are
also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
- ARTICLE I -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Provinces in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China-
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S R PUBLIC OF CHINA
By
thorized Representative
Name: 
k;,
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
4*.a 
'
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
'By
Au orized Representative
Name: 
/ 
'
Title: 
, 
_<..
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to develop and demonstrate rural value chains that promote
equitable organizational arrangements, participation, and sustainable increase of income of target
households in the Project Provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Integrated Value Chain Development
1.1 
Supporting Project Farmer Cooperatives establishment and development, through, inter
alia: (a) construction of offices and acquisition of basic office furniture and office
equipment; (b) provision of training and technical assistance in cooperative management
and business operations, the establishment of new and/ or improvement of existing
farmers 
cooperatives 
and 
other 
cooperative 
or 
community-based 
production
arrangements; (c) provision of training and capacity building for community economic
groups in ethnic minority areas; and (d) provision of technical advisory services and
agricultural crop insurance for selected crops in order to pilot crop- and livestock-
insurance schemes for the benefit of qualifying members of Project Farmer Cooperatives.
1.2 
Provision of Grants to Project Farmer Cooperatives to finance investments in agricultural
products and services for value chain development.
1.3 
Provision of technical training and services, through qualified agricultural enterprises, for
farmer cooperatives, communities, and farmer households groups, and for enterprises in
strengthening their outreach to targeted poor households or farmer groups
Part 2: Public Infrastructure and Services
2.1 
Supporting public infrastructure for farmer cooperatives and agricultural key commodity
development, through, inter alia: (a) construction of production road infrastructure; (b)
construction 
of irrigation' and 
drainage 
infrastructure; 
(c) 
establishment 
of
communications and information infrastructure and equipment; (d) construction of public
market facilities, including installation of electricity supply and other infrastructure and
acquisition of goods necessary to facilitate and complement investments under Part I of
the Project.
2.2 
Supporting public services for farmer cooperatives and pillar industry development,
through, inter alia: (a) construction of food testing certification facilities and acquisition
of equipment; (b) carrying out of food safety testing and control; (c) provision of public
extension and training services; and (d) carrying out of agriculture research, and
technology transfer activities, market studies, including recruitment of cooperative
advisors.
Part 3: Research, Training and Extension
-6-
Supporting the learning and dissemination of Project implementation lessons in support
of implementing the Borrower's national poverty reduction strategy, through, inter alia:
(a) analytical studies, including studies on poverty reduction and rural pillar industry
development in adjacent destitute areas; 
(b) studies on equitable cooperative/
organization arrangements; (c) training and workshops for government line agencies,
entrepreneurs, and public sector institutions on rural pillar industry development; and (d)
policy guidelines and appraisal guidelines for public sector support in rural areas.
Part 4: Project Management. Monitoring and Evaluation 
',
Strengthening of administrative and technical capacity and capability of the Project
management offices at the provincial, municipal and county levels to manage, implement
and monitor Project activities; including the monitoring of environmental and social
safeguards requirements, through the provision of technical assistance and domestic and
international training.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain,
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, IPRCC with a mandate, staffing
and other resources acceptable to the Bank for the purpose of overall Project
implementation, coordination, policy dialogue on poverty reduction at the national level
and carrying out learning and knowledge dissemination activities related to the Project.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Provinces the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Categories for each Project Province, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on the date,
or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions), shall be recovered
over a period of twenty-nine (29) years, inclusive of a grace period of ten (10)
years.
(c) 
A Commitment Charge equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum
on the unwithdrawn principal amount allocated to each Project Province.
(d) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each Project Province to: (a) manage, operate, monitor, transfer
and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to paragraph I above
in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all
required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals as may be
necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the
Project, and to comply with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c)
maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project and
provide promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as may be
requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
-8-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Provinces to take, all measures
necessary to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Safeguards Instruments and Section I.D of the Project 'Agreement.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of Ahy of the Safeguards Instruments and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester (i.e. February 28 and August 31 of each calendar year) interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
-9-
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and Ul of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, m, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct Contracting; (c) Shopping; and
(d) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank
and are set forth in the Project Implementation Manual.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower's Law on
Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999;
provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under' Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines. 
No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely used website /
-10-
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to
bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the date of availability of
bidding documents, whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of
bids, and the advertisement and bidding- docuients shall specify the deadline
for the submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website /
electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally and
internationally until at least the deadline for the submission of bids. Potential
bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding documents at any time
prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used
for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the information
upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current commitments, shall be
carried out at the time of contract award, along with the bidder's capability with
respect to personnel and equipment. 
All bidders that meet the qualification
criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and
there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended for
award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. 
A bidder 
.
determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given
reasonable opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility
contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
-11-
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity to
be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid
opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the
case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the number of bids is tess than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction fins or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall inclrde provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they can
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.
(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
-12-
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;
(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning biddef and the final total contract price, as
well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication. shall
be within two (2) weeks of receiving the 'Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review. 
The bidding
documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means
by which the information on contract award will be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be,
shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for bidders
to protest. 
The bidding documents shall provide the professional title and
address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) Quality-based Selection; 
(b) Selection based on Consultants' 
Qualifications;
(c) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs
5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(e) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-13-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
1/ 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(Expressed in USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Gansu Province:
(a) Grants under Part 1.2 of the 
47,180,000 
56%
Project
(b) Goods, works, non-consulting 
12,670,000 
100%
services, 
and 
consultants'
services and Training and
Incremental Operating Costs
(2) Guizhou Province:
(a) Grants under Part 1.2 of the 
17,500,000 
50%
Project
(b) Works under Part 2.1 of the 
12,570,000 
50%
Project
(c) Goods, works, non-consulting 
9,830,000 
100%
services, 
and 
consultts'
services, 
Training 
and
Incremental Operating Costs
-14-
(3) Sichuan Province:
(a) 
Works under Parts 1.1 (a) 
11,980,000 
50%
and 2.1 of the Project
(b) 
Grants under Part 1.2 of the 
29,090,000 
52%
Project
(c) 
Goods, 
non-consulting 
8,805,000 
100%
services, and consultants'
services and Training and
Incremental Operating Costs
(4) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of.this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 may be made for payments 'made prior to
this date but on or after December 1, 2014, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2021.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2025
through September 15, 2043 
2.63%
On March 15, 2044 
2.69%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I -of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installmeqt Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-16-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrpwn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Apiproved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its curreiey of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either. (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section L 
Definitions
1I 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating -
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared or
updated by the Project Provinces, and approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as
provided for in Section I, Part B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"County Project Management Office" means the county project management office
established within each Project County and to be maintained in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.A, paragraph I (c)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
and any successors thereto.
6. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plans" or "EMPs" means, collectively, each of the Project
Provinces' plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated November 4, 2014 (Gansu), October 31,
2014 (Guizhou), and November 3, 2014 (Sichuan), which sets out the environmental
protection measures, including measures for the protection of natural habitats, in respect
of the Project, as wel as administrative, monitoring, supervision and training
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all
schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.
8. 
"Ethnic Minority Development Plan" or "EMDP" means the Project Provinces' plan,
acceptable to the Bank, dated October 15, 2014, whose goal is to enable ethnic minorities
to fully participate in and benefit from the Project and to ensure the protection of their
interests and rights in land and resources and which includes: (a) the recruitment of
qualified cooperative advisors and trainers that speak local languages and the preparation
of culturally appropriate materials for training; (b) training programs for staff of the
-18-
Provincial Project Management Office and the County Project Management Offices on
culturally appropriate interaction and training to ethnic minorities; (c) training of ethnic
minorities in agricultural production and risk management; (d) assistance through the
ethnic minority affairs commissions at provincial and county levels, as needed; and (e)
the provision of budgets and designated staff in the Provincial Project Management
Office and the County Project Management Offices to implement the measures of the
EMDP; as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.
9. 
"Gansu" means the Borrower's province of Gansu,' and any successor thereto.
10. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means 
the "International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
11. 
"Grant" means a grant to be provided out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Project Farmer
Cooperative under Part 1.2 of the Project, for the purposes of financing goods, works and
services under an agreed work plan and budget as set out in the Implementation
Agreement to be entered into between such Project Framer Cooperative and the relevant
Project County as provided for in Part E of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
12. 
"Guizhou" means the Borrower's province of Guizhou, and any successor thereto.
13. 
"IPRCC" means the Borrower's International Poverty Reduction Center in China
established on December 9, 2004, and any successor thereto.
14. 
"Implementation Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into between a Project
County and a Project Farmer Cooperative providing for a Grant under Part 1.2 of the
Project, as provided in paragraph 3, Part E, Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
15. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity at the provincial, municipal and county levels, for purposes of
Project management and implementation based on the Annual Work Plans approved in
advance by the Bank, on account of office supplies and consumables, utilities, bank
charges, communications, mass media and printing services, interpretation and translation
services, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment
maintenance, local transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances,
salaries of contractual and temporary staff, and crop and livestock insurance under Part
1.1 (d) of the Project, but excluding salaries and any salary supplements of members of
the Borrower's or the Project Provinces' civil service.
16. 
"Municipal Project Management Office" means the municipal project management office
established within each Project Municipality, and to be maintained in accordance with the
provisions of Section LA, paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
and any successors thereto.
- -19-
17. 
"Pest Management Plans" means, collectively, each of the Project Provinces' plan,
acceptable to the Bank, dated November 19, 2014 (Gansu), November 18, 2014
(Guizhou), and November 19, 2014 (Sichuan), setting out, among other things, the
measures to promote and support safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest
management under the Project; as said plans may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and annexes
supplemental thereto.
18. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May
13, 2015, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
20. 
"Project Counties" means, collectively: (i) with respect to Gansu, the Zhangjiachuan
county of Tianshui municipality; the Gulang county of Wuwei municipality- the
Tongwei, Longxi, Weiyuan, Min, Anding, and Lintao counties of Dingxi municipality;
the Huan, Huachi, Zhengning, and Heshui counties of Qingyang municipality; the
Dongxiang and Yongjing counties of Linxia prefecture; and the Zhuanglang and Jingoing
counties of Pingliang municipality, and any successors thereto; (ii) with respect to
Guizhou, the Dafang and Zhijin counties of Bijie municipality and the Chishui, Xishui
and Tongzi of Zunyi municipality, any successors thereto; and (iii) with respect to
Sichuan, the Meigu, Butuo, Jinyang, and Zhaojue counties of Liangshan prefecture and
the Gulin and Xuyong counties of Luzhou municipality, and any successors thereto; and
"Project County" means, individually, any of such Project Counties; or any successor
thereto.
21. 
"Project Farmer Cooperative" means a cooperative duly established under the laws of the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, that meets the criteria set out in the
Project Implementation Manual and which has received or will receive a Grant under Part
1.2 of the Project.
22. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Project Provinces' manual dated May 7,
2015, describing, among other things: (a) the Project objective, Project activities and
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the flow of funds of the proceeds of the Loan
including financial management, disbursement and procurement arrangements; (b) the
institutional arrangements for the implementation of the Project, and the roles and
responsibilities of the entities involved in Project implementation; (c) arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for social and environment safeguards screening; (d) steps and
procedures for Project implementation; and (e) monitoring and evaluation, reporting and
information disclosure arrangements, and the indicators and targets for purposes of
monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Project.
-20-
23. 
"Project Provinces" means, collectively, Gansou, Guizhou and Sichuan; "Project
Province" means, individually, any of such Project Province; and the Project
Implementing Entity for the purpose of the General Conditions.
24. 
"Project Municipalities" means, collectively, (i) with respect to Gansu, the Tianshui,
Wuwei, Dingxi, Qingyang, Pingliang municipalities and Linxia prefecture, and any
successors thereto; (ii) with respect to Guizhou, the Bijie and the Zunyi municipalities,
and any successor thereto; and (iii) with respect to Sichuan, the Luzhou municipality and
Liangshan prefecture, and any successor theretp; and "Project Municipality" means,
individually, any of such Project Municipalities.
25. 
"Provincial Project Leading Group" means (i) with respect to Gansu, the provincial
project leading group established on June 1, 2012; (ii) with respect to Guizhou, the
provincial project leading group established on October 10, 1993; and (iii) with respect to
Sichuan, the provincial project leading group established on June 7, 1986; all to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section L.A, paragraph 1(a) (i) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successors thereto.
26. 
"Provincial Project Management Office" means: (i) with respect to Gansu, the provincial
project management office established on April 14, 1998; (ii) with respect to Guizhou,
the provincial project management office established on December 16, 1994; and (iii)
with respect to Sichuan, the provincial project management office established on
September 18, 1996; all to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section
LA, paragraph 1(a) (ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successors
thereto.
27. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or "RAPs" means each plan prepared or to be prepared by
the Project Provinces as provided for in the Resettlement Policy Framework to set out,
inter alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for
the Project and related facilities; (ii) actions and measures for the payment of
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (iii) the
criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions and measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from the
implementation of activities in locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; and
(iv) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the
same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank-, and
such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan.
28. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Project Provinces' framework, acceptable
to the Bank, dated October 15, 2014, setting out the policies and procedures for the
acquisition of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of
Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of Resettlement Action Plans as may be
required for Project activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with
the prior written concurrence of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and
annexes supplemental to said framework.
29. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means in respect of: (a) Gansu all Parts of the Project to
be implemented by Gansu in its jurisdiction; (b) Guizhou all Parts of the Project to be
-21-
implemented by Gansu in its jurisdiction; and Sichuan all Parts of the Project to be
implemented by Sichuan in its jurisdiction.
30. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental Management Plans, the
Ethnic Minority Development Plan, the Pest Management Plans, the Resettlement Policy
Framework and any Resettlement Action Plans that may be prepared under the Project, as
well as any schedules and annexes supplemental to said instruments.
31. 
"Sichuan" means the Borrower's province of Sichuan, and any successor thereto.
32. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on the Annual
Work Plans, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training,
along with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers,
rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
Section Il. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
-22-
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section
3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these GeneraV Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan 'Balan&, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or, early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
