OFFjCL~
LOAN NUMBER 8527-EG
Loan Agreement
(Sustainable Rural Sanitation Services Program)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8527-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
('c) 
Abery 
, 2015, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred fifty million United States Dollars
(US$550,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the program described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is MHUUC.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the withdrawn Loan Balance and outstanding from
time to time for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as
defined in paragraph 82 of the General Conditions) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable
Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of
handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect to the Loan.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Program through MHUUC and shall cause the
Program Implementing Entities to carry out Parts A and B of the Program, all with the
assistance of the PMU and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, the Program Agreement and this Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.02(m) of the General Conditions, the Additional
Event of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
Any legislation, license or other legal instrument related to the implementation of
the Program or to the establishment or operation of the Program Implementing
Entities has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the achievement of the objective of the Program,
or the ability of any Program Implementing Entity to implement the Program or
any of its obligations under the Program Agreement. Any suspension based on this
Section shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to the suspension
has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Borrower that such
right to make withdrawals has been restored.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General Conditions,
this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that all
necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this
Agreement or such later date as the Bank may establish in accordance with the provisions
of Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Minister of International
Cooperation of the Borrower and the Assistant to the Minister for International, Regional
and Arab Financing Organizations of the Ministry of International Cooperation of the
Borrower are severally designated as the Borrower's Representative.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of International Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
(202) 2391-2815
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
(202) 2391-5167
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
P' 
CDO 
((1.AP, 
as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF E 
T
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
& 
q
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
&a 
1k
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to strengthen institutions and policies for increasing access
and improving rural sanitation services in the Governorates of Beheira, Dakahliya and Sharkiya in
the Arab Republic of Egypt.
The Program is a part of the Borrower's National Rural Sanitation Program and consists
of the following activities:
Part A: Improved Sanitation Access
1. 
Provision of access to sanitation to about 833,000 people living in highly polluted villages
and satellite areas within the Program Area in the three Participating Governorates of
Dakahliya, Sharkiya, and Beheira, through the construction by the respective WSCs of
about 167,000 new connections from household to a sewer network that is linked to a
wastewater treatment facility or other effective wastewater treatment system.
2. 
Constructing or upgrading of wastewater treatment facilities to appropriate standards.
3. 
Utilization of Performance-based Capital Grants made by MHUUC to WSCs to carry out
priority rural sanitation investments identified through the Master Plans and included in
the Annual Capital Investment Plan of the WSCs.
Part B: Improved Operational Systems and Practices of WSCs
I. 
Strengthening the capacities of the WSCs to improve their performance in the operational,
financial, institutional, and citizen engagement areas, including in the planning and
implementation of infrastructure investments and in their operational and maintenance
requirements, improving efficiency and reducing costs, and designing and implementing
performance improvement plans.
Part C: Strengthened National Sector Framework
1. 
Carrying out a program of activities for strengthening the enabling environment for more
efficient and accountable rural sanitation service delivery including: (i) the development
of a tariff structure for sanitation services that would enable cost recovery; (ii) the
formulation of a National Rural Sanitation Strategy; and (iii) the finalization of the standard
operating procedures for land acquisition for rural sanitation services.
2. 
Carrying out policy and analytical studies to inform the policy making process in the rural
sanitation sector including, building and sustaining an effective regulatory and oversight
framework, and improving the capacity to conduct regular and timely financial and
performance audits of WSCs, aimed at providing a strong enabling framework for
empowering the WSCs to become efficient and accountable service delivery institutions.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through MHUUC, shall carry out and shall cause the Program to be carried out by the
Program Implementing Entities, in accordance with financial management, procurement
and environmental and social management systems acceptable to the Bank ("Program
Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the principles
of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability; and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program are
identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an informed
decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, though
MHUUC, shall carry out and shall cause the Program Implementing Entities to carry out
the Program, in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section 1, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause the Program Implementing Entities to carry out the Action Plan, in accordance
with the time schedule set out in the said Action Plan in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Except as the Bank may agree after consultation with the Borrower, the Borrower through
MHUUC shall not, and shall ensure that the Action Plan is not amended, waived,
suspended, terminated or abrogated, by the Program Implementing Entities.
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower through MHUUC shall maintain the PMU with terms of reference,
powers, functions and resources, acceptable to the Bank, and with composition of
staff in sufficient numbers and adequate qualifications to carry out its
responsibilities under the program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC, no later than three months after the
Effectiveness Date, hire and thereafter retain a consultant firm with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank to provide support to the PMU in management
and coordination of the Program, including the planning of projects and activities
under the NRSP and the Program, project management, supervision of engineering
works, assistance in procurement processes, and quality assurance relating to the
overall implementation of the Program.
-7-
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC and with the assistance of the PMU, carry out its
respective activities under Part C of the Program in accordance with the provisions of the
Program Operations Manual and a time frame acceptable to the Bank. Except as the Bank
may agree after consultation with the Borrower, the Borrower shall not amend, waive,
suspend, terminate or abrogate the Program Operations Manual or any provision thereof.
4. 
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC, implement the recommendations resulting from the
implementation of the activities under Part C of the Program in a manner and timeframe
acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC, take all actions as may be needed in order to enable
HCWW to implement its respective activities under the Program and to fulfil its obligations
under the Program Agreement.
6. 
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC, provide for each Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Program a Performance-based Capital Grant to each WSC in two
installments, the first at the start of the Fiscal Year in July and the second in January of the
same Fiscal Year for the purpose of carrying out its Annual Capital Investment Plan. The
amount of said Grant shall consist of: (a) a base amount from year 1 of the Program which
shall be determined by the PMU based on the WSC achieving the Minimum Requirements
in accordance with principles, methodology and arrangements as set out in the Program
Operations Manual; and (b) an incentive amount from year 3 of the Program which shall
be determined by the PMU based on the WSC's Annual Performance Assessment under
its Performance Improvement Action Plan in accordance with principles, methodology and
arrangements as set out in the Program Operations Manual.
7. 
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC, cause the PMU with the collaboration of HCWW,
to evaluate the achievement of the Minimum Requirements and to carry out Annual
Performance Assessment of the WSCs under their respective Performance Improvement
Action Plan as referred to in paragraph 6 above, all in accordance with principles,
methodology and arrangements set out in the Program Operations Manual.
8. 
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC, no later than June 30, 2016, establish, a complaints
and grievance redressal mechanism to handle complaints and grievances from Program
beneficiaries or third parties relating to any aspects of the Program including adverse social
and environmental impacts, and allegations of fraud and corruption. Such mechanism shall,
inter alia, contain procedures for recording of complaints and grievances, directing the
complainants to the appropriate level for action, the review process, and provision of
feedback to the complainant on the action taken on the basis of best practice service
standards.
9. 
The Borrower shall, no later than three months after the Effective Date, engage an
Independent Verification Agent, to prepare and provide verification reports certifying the
achievement of the DLRs, all in accordance with procedures and arrangements acceptable
to the Bank as referred to in Section IV.B. 1(b) of this Schedule.
-8-
10 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall, through MHUUC, make
the proceeds of the Loan available to the Program Implementing Entities in a timely
manner.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC, ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost US$50 million equivalent or more
per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost US$30 million equivalent or more per contract;
(3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost US$20 million equivalent or more per
contract; or (4) consultants' services, estimated to cost US$15 million equivalent or more
per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall, through MHUUC, and shall cause the Program Implementing Entities,
to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare Program Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each Program
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section l.A of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through MHUUC, and shall cause the Program
Implementing Entities, to have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the end of such period; and (b) made publically available in a timely fashion
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional arrangements as
the Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower to: (a) pay the Front-
end Fee; (b) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and (c) finance
the Program Expenditures, on the basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or
"DLRs") achieved by the Borrower and the Program Implementing Entities, as the case
-9-
may be and as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or
"DLIs"), all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
- 10-
Category 
Disbursement 
Amount of the 
Disbursement
(including Disbursement 
Linked Result (as 
Loan 
Calculation
Linked Indicator as applicable) 
applicable) 
Allocated 
Formula
(expressed in
USD)
(1) 
DLI #1: 
Establishment and 
DLR 
#1.1: 
Final 
220,000,000 
DLR 
#1.1:
functioning of at least 167,000 
designs 
completed 
$15,000,000 for
new House hold (HH) connections 
for at least 25,000 
FY 16
to working sanitation systems in 
connections
villages and satellites of which at
least 10% of the connections are in 
DLR #1.2.1: Final
satellites. 
design completed
for at least 67,000
connections
DLR #1.2.2:10,000 
DLR# 
1.2.1:
new HH 
$12,950,000 for
connections 
final 
designs
established 
completed for at
least 
67,000
new
connections
DLR# 1.2.2:
$11,500,000 
of
which $1150 for
each connection
established 
for
FY17 provided
that 
at 
least
2,000
connections
have 
been
established.
DLR #1.3: Total of 
DLR 
#1.3:
40,000 
$46,000,000 of
New 
House holds 
which 
($1150)
connections 
for 
each
established 
in 
connection
villages (Cumulative 
established 
for
connections 50,000) 
FY 18 provided
that 
at 
least
8,000 new HH
-ll-
connections
have 
been
established.
DLR #1.4: Total of 
DLR 
#1.4:
50,000 
$57,500,000 of
New House 
holds 
which $1150 for
connections 
each connection
established 
in 
established 
for
villages (Cumulative 
FY 19 provided
connections 
that 
at 
least
100,000) 
10,000 new HH
connections
have 
been
established.
DLR #1.5: Total of 
DLR #1.5:
67,000 
$77,050,000 of
New House holds 
which $1150 for
connections 
each connection
established 
in 
established 
for
villages (Cumulative 
FY 20 provided
connections 
that: (1) at least
167,000) 
13,400 new HH
connections
have 
been
established, and
(2) 
at 
least
16,700 new HH
connections
have 
been
established 
in
"satellites"
(2) DLI #2: Annual transfer of DLR #2: PBCG has 
40,000,000 
DLR 
# 
2:
Performance-based Capital Grants 
been transferred by 
$40,000,000 of
(PBCG) by MHUUC to eligible 
MHUUC to eligible 
which
WSCs pursuant to the provisions 
WSCs. 
$8,000,000 
for
of paragraph 6 of Section LC of 
each of FY 16,
Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
FY 17, FY 18,
FY 19 and FY
20
- 12-
(3) 
DLI 
#3: 
Design 
and 
DLR 
#3.1: 
170,000,000 
DLR# 
3.1:
implementation of the Annual 
Performance 
$15,000,000 for
Performance Assessment (APA) 
Improvement Action 
FY 16
system for the WSCs, and WSCs 
Plans 
(PIAPs)
achievement of the required APA 
prepared 
for 
the
threshold scores in accordance 
three WSCs.
with 
the 
Program 
Operations
Manual. 
DLR #3.2: A manual 
DLR# 
3.2:
for carrying out the 
$20,000,000 for
APA of the WSCs 
FY 17
has been prepared
and the first APA for
each of the three
WSCs 
has 
been
carried out.
DLR 
#3.3: 
Each 
DLR# 
3.3:
WSC has achieved 
$45,000,000 for
the 
minimum 
each of FY 18,
threshold 
APA 
FY 19 and FY
scores in accordance 
20
with the manual and
the 
Program
Operations Manual.
(4) 
DLI 
#4: 
Preparation 
and 
DLR # 4.1: A new 
50,000,000 
DLR# 
4.1:
approval of a new national tariff national 
tariff 
$10,000,000 for
structure for water and sanitation 
structure for water 
FY 15
services by MHUUC to allow for 
and 
sanitation
sustainable cost recovery 
services 
has 
been
prepared 
by
MHUUC.
DLR #4.2: A new 
DLR# 
4.2:
national 
tariff 
$40,000,000
structure for water
and 
sanitation
services 
has 
been
approved 
by
MHUUC and decree
has been issued.
- 13-
(5) DLI #5: Establishment of PMU 
DLR #5.1: PMU has 
50,000,000 
DLR 
#5.1:
and approval of a National Rural 
been created with a 
$10,000,000 for
Sanitation Strategy by MHUUC. 
mandate 
for 
the 
FY 15
formulation 
and
coordination 
of
NRSP 
and 
the
National 
Rural
Sanitation Strategy
DLR# 5.2: National 
DLR 
#5.2:
Rural 
Sanitation 
$30,000,000
Strategy has 
been
approved 
by
MHUUC.
DLR#5.3: 
Key 
DLR 
#5.3:
Action 
Plans 
for 
$10,000,000
implementing 
the
National 
Rural
Sanitation 
Strategy
have been designed.
(6) DLI #6: Approval of Standard 
DLR #6: Standard 
18, 625,000 
DLR #6:
Operating Procedures 
for land 
Operating 
$18, 625,000 for
acquisition 
under 
NRSP 
by 
Procedures for land 
FY 17
MHUUC. 
acquisition 
under
NRSP 
have 
been
approved 
by
MHUUC.
(7) Front-end Fee to be paid 
1,375,000 
Amount
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this 
payable
Agreement in accordance 
with 
pursuant 
to
Section 2.07(b) of the General 
Section 2.03 of
Conditions 
this Agreement
in 
accordance
with 
Section
2.07 (b) of the
General
Conditions
(8) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount 
due
Rate Collar premium to be paid 
pursuant 
to
pursuant to Section 2.08(c) of this 
Section 2.08(c)
Agreement in accordance 
with 
of 
this
Section 
4.05 
of the General 
Agreement
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
550,000,000
- 14 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, for payments for Program
Expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawal up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$20,000,000 may be made for such
payments made prior to this date but on or after January 31, 2015; and
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (6), unless the Borrower
through MHUUC and the Program Implementing Entities have furnished all
required verification documents and information acceptable to the Bank showing
that said DLR has been achieved. Such verification documents and information
shall include verification reports from the Independent Verification Agent
(excluding DLRs 4.1 and 5.1), based on reports prepared by MHUUC and the
Program Implementing Entities certifying the achievement of the DLRs in
accordance with procedures and arrangements, and verification protocols
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
(a) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may
withdraw an amount not to exceed $137,500,000 as an advance under Categories
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (6).
(b) 
If the DLR/DLRs for any said Category in the opinion of the Bank is not achieved
or is only partially achieved by the date by which said DLR is set to be achieved
or by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice by the Bank,
refund to the Bank such advance or portion of such advance as determined by the
Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Part B.
(c) 
Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount
so refunded pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) above. Any further withdrawals requested
as an advance under any Category shall be endorsed only on such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, if in the opinion of the Bank
any of the DLRs under Category (1) has not been achieved by the date by which the said
DLR is set to be achieved, the Bank may, during Program implementation, after consulting
with the Borrower, determine, to:
(a) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of
the Loan then allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank,
corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR, said lesser amount to be
calculated in accordance with the Disbursement Calculation Formula set out in the
fourth column of the table in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule;
(b) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said DLR to any
other DLR; and/or
- 15 
(c) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said DLR.
4. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2020.
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after the Closing
Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence acceptable to the Bank that the
Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of Program Expenditures paid
by the Borrower, exclusive of any such expenditures financed by any other financier or by
the Bank or the Association under any other loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the Withdrawn
Loan Balance.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each September 15 and March 15
Beginning September 15, 2020 
1,67%
through September 15, 2049
On March 15, 2050 
1,47%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
- 17-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 18-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Action Plan" means the plan of MHUUC and the Program Implementing Entities dated
June 17, 2015, and referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section
I.C. I of the Program Agreement, as may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the Bank.
2. 
"Annual Capital Investment Plan" means the Annual Plan prepared by each WSC within
the framework of the Master Plan of each WSC that sets out the rural sanitation and
wastewater treatment infrastructure investments to be carried out each year in order to meet
the objectives of the NRSP.
3. 
"Annual Performance Assessment" means the assessment to be carried out each Fiscal
Year by the PMU with the collaboration of HCWW for each WSC to determine the
incentive amount component of the Performance-based Capital Grant for which it is
eligible, said assessment to be based on criteria related to operational, financial,
institutional and citizen engagement dimensions and to be carried out in accordance with
methodology and arrangements set out in the Program Operations Manual and included in
its Performance Improvement Action Plan.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating 
Fraud 
and 
Corruption 
in 
Program-for-Results 
Financing", 
dated
February 1, 2012.
5. 
"Beheira WSC" means the Beheira Water and Sanitation Company established pursuant to
Presidential Decree 135 of 2004 as a subsidiary company of HCWW.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Dakahliya WSC" means the Dakahliya Water and Sanitation Company established
pursuant to Presidential Decree 135 of 2004 as a subsidiary company of HCWW.
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
9. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
10. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower and the Program
Implementing Entities beginning on July 1 of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the
following calendar year.
- 19-
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"HCWW" means the Borrower's Holding Company for Water and Wastewater established
pursuant to Presidential Decree 135 of 2004.
13. 
"Independent Verification Agent" means an independent entity to be engaged by MHUUC
for the purposes of certifying the achievement of the DLRs as referred to in Section I.C(9)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"LE" means Egyptian Pound, the lawful currency of the Borrower.
15. 
"Master Plan" means the Master Plan prepared by each WSC that is designated to meet
demand projected out to 2037 for rural sanitation and wastewater treatment infrastructure
investments in accordance with the objectives of the NRSP, and which may be updated
from time to time to meet said objectives.
16. 
"MHUUC" means the Ministry of Housing, Utilities and Urban Communities of the
Borrower or any successor thereto.
17. 
"Minimum Requirements" means the requirements to be achieved by each WSC in order
to be eligible for the base amount of the Performance-based Capital Grant and evaluated
in accordance with principles, methodology and arrangements as set out in the Program
Operations Manual.
18. 
"National Rural Sanitation Program" or "NRSP" means the Borrower's Rural Sanitation
Program aimed at providing universal access to sustainable rural sanitation services to
about 45 million people and to reinforce a series of performance improvement measures at
the local utility level, supported by national initiatives to address persistent sector
challenges, including improving cost recovery and the overall accountability framework.
19. 
"Participating Governorates" means the Borrower's Governorates of Beheira, Dakahliya
and Sharkiya within which the Program Area is located.
20. 
"Performance-based Capital Grants" means the annual fiscal transfers from MHUUC's
budget into the annual budget of the WSCs consisting of a base amount from year I of the
Program based on achieving the Minimum Requirements set out in the Program Operations
Manual, and an incentive amount from year 3 of the Program based on their Annual
Performance Assessments under the Performance Improvement Action Plan, all in
accordance with principles, methodology and arrangements set out in the Program
Operations Manual which the WSCs can use to finance the investment projects prioritized
in their Annual Capital Investment Plans, and aimed at strengthening accountability and
transparency of the WSCs and their service delivery model and improving national policy
and oversight.
21. 
"Performance Improvement Action Plan" means the Plan of each WSC to improve its
operational and financial performance and on the basis of which its Annual Performance
-20-
Assessment is carried out to be eligible for the incentive amount component of the
Performance based Capital Grant from year 3 of the Program.
22. 
"Program Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and HCWW, Beheira WSC,
Dakahliya WSC and Sharkiya WSC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
such Program Agreement.
23. 
"Program Area" means the villages and satellites (areas generally on the outskirts of the
main villages) within the Participating Governorates identified in the Program Operations
Manual where the Program will be carried out.
24. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's and the
Program Implementing Entity's systems for the Program referred to in Section L.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Sections L.A of the Schedule to the Program Agreement.
25. 
"Program Implementing Entities" means HCWW, Beheira WSC, Dakahliya WSC and
Sharkiya WSC.
26. 
"Program Management Unit" or "PMU" means the Unit established within the Office of
the Minister of MHUUC by Decree 154 of 2015 issued by the Borrower's MHUUC for
purposes, inter alia, of coordinating the implementation of the Program and the NRSP,
including preparing strategic action plans, supervising procurement activities, reviewing
and approving investment plans, following up on the status of implementation, preparing
performance and evaluation reports, and liaising with partners and donors.
27. 
"Program Operations Manual" means the Manual to be adopted by the Borrower and the
Program Implementing Entities pursuant to the requirements of the Action Plan setting out
the details for implementing the Program, including the respective roles and
responsibilities of the parties, as well as the principles, methodology and arrangements for
the verification of the DLIs and DLRs, the provision of Performance-based Capital Grants,
and the preparation, implementation and evaluation of the Action Plan, the Annual Capital
Investment Plan, the Annual Performance Assessment, the Master Plan, and Performance
Improvement Action Plan.
28. 
"Sharkiya WSC" means the Sharkiya Water and Sanitation Company established pursuant
to Presidential Decree 135 of 2004 as a subsidiary company of HCWW.
29. 
"WSCs" means Beheira WSC, Dakahliya WSC and Sharkiya WSC collectively and
"WSC" means individually any one of said subsidiary companies as the context may
require.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
-21 
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I of this Section II), is
modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
- 22 
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
1. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
