DOCMENW
LOAN NUMBER 8492-1
Loan Agreement
(First Programmal ic Shared Prosperity Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
ry) x'1 
, 201l
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
Q1 
, 2015 entered into between REPUBLIC OF
PANAMA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars (US$300,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortizati i
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of I i
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change o f
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Los r,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the inter : t
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Lc iI
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; a
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn a i,I
outstanding fron a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Varial I
Spread to a Var able Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Varial I
Spread, or vice v--rsa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn a i, l
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable R t
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or 1 1
Reference Rate a 3plicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Lc i
withdrawn and o itstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Inter st
Rate Collar on tt e Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepi s I
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the Gene I
Conditions, and .,hall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article 
"
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditic ;
(renumbered as such pt rsuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to ti i
Agreement and relating lo Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promp I
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article I as the Ba :
may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares iis commitment to the Program and its implementation. To t ii;
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower ani I the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either par ),
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and 1 1
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a
its review and c:)mment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 1 1
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Secti4 r:.
the Borrower shzill promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 1 1
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action tal<.n
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to t ii
Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the Bank
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Direcci6n de Cr6dito Pblico
Via Espafila, Calle 52
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso
Panama, Rep6blica de Panamd
Telephone: (507) 507-7200
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at 
OGrO 
.
' 
CO 
P1ca ra, as of the day and year fi s:
above written. 
I
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By
zed Representati,
Name: 
CA djd c 
L.carito
Title: 
A -t3 r"2 
cil&fi-G
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIO -4
AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
-
/ 
Authorized Representati l
Name: 
AWNa 
cL A re-j
Title: 
ce.(r0 
c Cie- 
at 5
-4-
SCHEDULE1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar 1: Expanding Inclusion and Opportunities
1. 
The Borrower has increased payment incentives to the beneficiaries of the Beca Universal
program, differentiated by schooling level (primaria, pre-media, media cycles) pursuant to
Law No. 14 dated August 14, 2014 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
even date.
2. 
The Borrower has: (a) piloted the "Programa Panamd Pro-Joven ", a vocational training
program that provides on the job training to graduates of the technical branch of secondary
education, pursuant to the Cooperation and Coordination Agreement between MITRADEL
and MEDUCA on October 1, 2014; and (b) legally created a new set of baccalaureates, as
part of a curricula consistent with labor market demands, pursuant to the Borrower's
Executive Decree No. 21 dated January 31, 2014 and published in the Official Gazette on
February 05, 2014.
3. 
The Borrower has expanded the coverage and benefits of the "Programa 120 a los 65",
the social protection program for the elderly without pension to provide 120 Balboas
monthly, pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 15 dated September 1, 2014 and published
in the Official Gazette on even date.
Pillar 2: Improving Service Delivery
4. 
The Borrower has: (a) created the "Unidad Gestora de Agua y Saneamiento", a
management unit within the "Secretaria de Metas Presidenciales " to carry out the "Plan
de SanidadBdsica 100/0 ", a basic sanitation plan to provide 100 percent access to drinking
water and 0 latrines, pursuant to the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 1221 dated July 2,
2014 and published on the Official Gazette on July 3, 2014; and (b) launched the SIASAR,
a standardized information system for improving the monitoring of water management in
rural areas, pursuant to the "Regional Agreement to Adopt the Methodology, Processes
and Regulations applicable for SIASAR" signed by the Borrower and other Central
American countries on April 1, 2014.
5. 
The Borrower has: (a) approved the adjustment of electricity tariff subsidies pursuant to
the Borrower's Cabinet Resolution No. 177 dated December 2, 2014 and published on the
Official Gazette on December 9, 2014; and (b) established a regime of incentives to
increase the share of renewable energy in the power generation matrix pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No 37 dated June 10, 2013 and published on the Official Gazette on June
13, 2013.
-5-
Pillar 3: Modernizing Fiscal Man iagement
6. 
The Borrower has: (a) approved the introduction of the single treasury account; and 1i)
channeled all funds of the treasury and MEF through the single treasury account pursu, t
to the Borrower's Law No. 56 dated September 17, 2013, published in the Official Gaze t
on September 18, 2013 and Law No. 19, dated September 30, 2014 and published in 1 1!
Official Gazette on October 1, 2014, respectively.
7. 
The Borrower has approved a policy for managing fiscal risks related to natural disasti r
which includes the identification and evaluation of fiscal risk from disasters, the integrati ii
of disaster risk analysis into public investment planning, and the design of risk retenti ii
and risk transfer tools, pursuant to the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 578 dal.!,1
November 13, 2014 and published in the Official Gazette on November 18, 2014.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with I i,
provisions of this Sectio-i and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amcunts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, fr( n1
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of I i,
amounts of the Loan to tI is end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in US Dollars)
(1)Single 
300,000,000
Withdrawal Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account ur li I
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Sinj I1
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out -:
the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic poli.
framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amon its. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an accot 1'
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
-6-
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is April 30, 2016.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets lorth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentz :
of the total principal am ount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment D t
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the fi st
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower > I
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
D)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installml rI
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessa 
,
to deduct any amounts r ferred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currer.:
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February I and Augus: 1, beginning 
2.70 %
February 1, 2016 through Aul:ust 1, 2033
On February 1, 2034 
2.80%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loin have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Paym( r
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each PrincipE I
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent th,t any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the fi t
Principal Paymei it Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance ;I
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount wit idrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid ) i
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amou it;
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal b, i
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in 1 1
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Origii EI
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaini i
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after s..:I
date, such amoui its repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amou it
referred to in piragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversi > i
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any PrincipE I
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amou it
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstandi i
on the second Pr ncipal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and sh II
be repayable or each Principal Payment Date commencing with the seco 1
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at a i
time the Bank ad3pts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued > i
-8-
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Beca Universal" mean. the Borrower's program established pursuant to Law No. 8 a 1
Law No. 40 of 2010, and their modifications, which provides financial support to stude it;.
from primaria, pre-media and media, as incentives, until the culmination of their sludic
2. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or internatiol 
I
financing institul ion or agency other than the Bank or the Association has finan( .
or agreed to finalce, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agre .: I
to finance under mother loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Stand, I
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 1 1
United Nations iii Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SiTC), tr
any successor {roups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, a;
designated by thc Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
-10-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
3. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
4. 
"MEDUCA" means Ministerio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Education.
5. 
"MEF" means Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy
and Finance.
6. 
"MIDES" means Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, the Borrower's Ministry of Social
Development.
7. 
"MINSA" means Ministerio de Salud, the Borrower's Ministry of Health.
8. 
"MITRADEL" means Ministerio de Trabajo y Desarrollo Laboral, the Borrower's
Ministry of Labor and Employment.
9. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated January 19, 2015, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
10. 
"Programa Panamd Pro-Joven " means the Borrower's program established by the
MITRADEL and MEDUCA, which provides on the job training to Panamanian youth
aiming to improve their effective insertion in the labor market.
11. 
"Programa 100/0" means the Borrower's sanitation plan that aims to provide water
services 24 hours per day and to eliminate latrines across the country, to be implemented
by the Unidad Gestora de Agua y Saneamiento, under the Secretaria de Metas
Presidenciales.
-ll-
12. 
"Programa 120 a los 65 " means the Borrower's social program (originally denomina 
I
"Programa 100 a los 70") established pursuant Law No. 86 of 2010 which provic e;
financial monthly support to the elderly without pension.
13. 
"SIASAR" means the Si-tema de Informacidn de Agua y Saneamiento Rural, a regioi El
platform adopted by several countries in Central America, to facilitate the harmonizati 
i
and exchange of informalion regarding the water and sanitation systems with particu a
focus on rural areas.
14. 
"Single Withdrawal Traiche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the categ( r
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Content., the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbi ri
are modified to reflect th.. modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of parag raph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdraw I)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designate iAccounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in th -i
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-erid Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rt
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Lc. i
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). 
i!
Commitment Charge shill accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Lc I1
Agreement to the respect Ive dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower fr( r i
the Loan Account or cani-elled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annua I,
in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financ ci
Statements; Audits) are celeted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article
are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above ai
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
-12-
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
-13-
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, l
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment - f
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by 1 Ii
Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleti E;
the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the w< r
"interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Prograi i
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" through< 0
these General Conditionm are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" mears the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support .f
which the Loan is made.'
-14-
