OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8521-AL
Loan Agreement
(Citizen-Centric Service Delivery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
eP76 
_/-7,3C2 
2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8521-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated, 
EC P7E & 
2 
' 
2015, between the
REPUBLICOF ALBANIA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I-GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1I-LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty nine million, three hundred
thousandEuro (E29,300,000) ("Loan"), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including the requirementthat no
Loan withdrawals shall be made for payments to finance Eligible Expenditure
Programs under Category (1) unless the pertinent conditions and results for each
respective DLI as set forth in Annex 2 to Schedule 2 have been achieved.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Ratefor the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
-2-
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions.Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with
theamortization schedule set forth inSchedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III-PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project throughMIPA with the assistance of
the Participating Agencies in respect of the following public sector reform
activities set forth inParts 1(a), 2(a) and 3(a) of the Project, simplification of the
business processes, improving the quality of public service delivery and
attaining the Institutional Prerequisites for the delivery of the Citizen Centric
Service Delivery Reform Program, allin accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV-EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditionsof Effectiveness consistof the following, namely, that
the Borrower, through MIPA, has:
(a) 
prepared and adopted theOperations Manual in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; and
(b) 
established a Project Management Unit comprising of staff with
qualifications, experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
No. 3 Bulevardi "Dashmordt e Kombit"
Tirand, Albania
Facsimile:
355 42228494
1
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Tirana, Republic of Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
By
Authorized R presentative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 14-#SEE1U 
5i Y61)
Title: 6(2 AN/ 
1ft 
Im/vse
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectiveof the Projectis to improve the efficiency of delivery and access to
Selected Administrative Services in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part1: Enhancing the Backend Systems
(a) 
Supporting theimplementation of the Borrower's program for simplification and
improvement of its business processes(Business Process Re-engineering) to
reduce time citizens take to obtain the required services, through reimbursement
of EEPs for said program (Part 1(a) EEP).
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of ADISA and the Participating Agenciesto provide
improved Selected AdministrativeServices 
through provision of technical
assistance and Training.
(c) 
Strengthening 
theParticipating 
Agencies'ICT 
capacity 
through 
inter
aliaconverting information into digital format, optimizing databases to promote
more effective use of data, and developing software through provision of
technical assistance and goods.
Part2: Enhancing Citizen Interface with Service Delivery
(a) 
Supporting implementation of the Borrower's program to improve the quality of
its public 
service 
delivery 
including through inter alia(i)disseminating
information on government services to the public; (ii)providing transactional web
presence through electronic authentication, E-filing and E-payments; and (iii)
monitoring of citizen feedback and improvements in performance, through
reimbursement of EEPs for said program (Part 2(a) EEP).
(b) 
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity todevelop and implement a range of
programactivities,including: 
(i) communication programs, (ii) incentives for
various actors to ensure effective implementation of the Project; (iii) citizen
outreach and awareness campaigns; and(iv)citizens'feedback mechanisms.
(c) 
Carrying out of minor refurbishment of front offices of select service providing
institutions.
(d) 
Establishing a Call Center through provision of goods and technical assistance.
**
-6-
Part 3: Building Capacity to Deliver
(a) 
Supporting the implementation of the Borrower's program on achieving
theInstitutional Prerequisites for the Citizen Centric Service Delivery Reform
Program, namely: (i) approval of the Citizen Centric Service Delivery Reform
Program document; and(ii) conducting surveys for the baseline information on
the objectives of the Project, through reimbursement of EEPs for said program
(Part 3(a) EEP).
(b) 
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to deliver public services through inter
alia:
(i) 
designing and implementing a program foradoption and implementation
of proposed reforms to be identified under the Project;
(ii) 
improving 
data 
collection 
including 
throughdeveloping 
service
standards, conducting regular assessments;strengthening monitoring
toolsand conducting third party audits and DLIs verification; and
(iii) 
strengthening ADISA's Project management capacity.
Part 4: Citizen Service Center and Project Management
(a) 
Citizen Service Center
(i) 
Conducting a study on the current state of public services delivery.
(ii) 
Preparing a concept of the CSC model and its design, and supporting
CSC establishment.
(iii) 
Establishing a citizen feedback mechanism to promote effective use of
the CSC model.
(b) 
Project Management Unit
Strengthening the capacity ofADISA to implement the Project, including,inter
alia,through the recruitment of a Project manager, financial management
specialist, administrative specialist and procurement specialist.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Management Unit
(a) 
The Borrower shall through MIPA:
(i) 
carryout oversight of Project implementation;
(ii) 
ensure that ADISA establishes and thereafter operates and
maintainsthroughout 
Project 
implementation,a 
Project
Management Unit with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank, and key staff including a Project Manager, a
procurement specialist,a financial management specialist, and an
administrative specialist,all with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii) 
ensure that the PMU carries out its overall Project management
responsibilities including: (i) coordination of the Participating
Agencies and overseeing their technical inputs; (ii) consolidation
of documentation on EEPs, technical reports and information on
DLIs 
verification; 
and 
(iii) 
procurement 
and 
financial
management.
2. 
Project Steering Committee
The Borrower shall through MIPA:
(a) 
maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a Project Steering
Committee (PSC); and
(b) 
ensure that the PSC:(i) meetsat least on a quarterly basis;(ii) carries out
oversight 
of the management 
of the 
Project, including 
inter
aliamonitoring 
of Project 
implementation 
progress, 
removal 
of
bottlenecks;and 
(iii)facilitates 
informationexchange 
among 
the
Participating Agencies.
-8-
3. 
Ministerial Working Groups
(a) 
The Borrower shall through MIPA:
(i) 
operate and maintain throughout the implementation of the
Project, the Ministerial Working Groups, chaired by MIPA with
a compositionincluding 
representatives 
of ministries 
and
agencies involved in the Project, mandate, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) 
ensure that the TIC: (A) carries out technical studies for
gathering the relevant baseline data; (B) completes the review of
the relevant lawsand validating the existing legal reform
inventory; and (C) recommends the processes for simplification
including the necessary 
legal reforms to deliver quality
administrative services.
4. 
Inter-Ministerial Public Service Committee
The Borrower shall ensure that the IPSC supports Project implementation
through providing: (a) strategic guidance on the public service provision reforms,
(b) oversight of the agencies involved in the Project, and (c) recommendations to
resolve Project implementation obstacles associated with the agencies involved
in the Project.
5. 
Operations Manual
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower through MIPA shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the Operations Manual
which manual sets forth the policies and procedures that apply to the
carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) the roles and
responsibilities of the Participating Agenciesand entities involved in
Project; (ii) a detailed description of the EEPs; (iii) the estimated
implementation schedule; (iv) procedures for accessing, disbursing and
accounting for funds under the Project; (v) the indicators to be used in
the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (vi) the procedures for
Project monitoring, supervision and evaluation, including the format and
content of the Project Reports; (g) the DLIs and (vii) procurement and
financial management procedures including clearly defined procedures
related to payments verification and processing, and record and
-9-
management of Eligible Expenditures financed with the Loan proceeds
and,
(b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Operations
Manual shall not be amended, waived, suspended or abrogated, and in
case of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Operations
Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower through MIPA, shall:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental Management
Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
provide to the Bank for its prior approval, any revision proposed to be
introduced into said EMP, and thereafter only introduce such revision
into said EMP as shall have been agreed with the Bank.
2. 
In case of a conflict between the EMP and the provisions of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower through MIPA shall ensure that the execution of the Project does
not result in: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss
of shelter (B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood on project affected persons, whether or not such affected
persons must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction to
access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse
impacts on the livelihoods.
4. 
In implementing Part 4 (a) (ii) of the Project, theBorrower through MIPA shall
ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy shall be satisfactory to the
Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall
duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards Policies then in
force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
- 10 -
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MIPA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of theindicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) months and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrowershall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause MIPA to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b)of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under
the Preparation Advance for the Project. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine months after
the end of such period.
C. 
DLI Audit, DLI Progress Report, DLI Audit Report
1. 
In implementing Parts 1(a), 2(a) and 3(a) of the Project, the Borrower, through
MIPA, shall ensure that ADISA:
(a) 
no later than one (1)monthafter the end of each calendarquarter,or by
such later date as agreed with the Bank, prepares and furnishes to the
Bank an interim unaudited DLI Progress Report satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
no later than one (1)month after the end of eachcalendar Year, or by such
later date as agreed with the Bank,carries out an independent DLI Audit
e
- 11 -
which shall,inter alia,certify the extent to which the DLI for the pertinent
calendar Year covered by the DLI Audit has been met; and
(c) 
no later than one (1) month after the end of each calendar Year, or by
such later date as agreed with the Bank, prepares and furnishes to the
Bank a complete DLI Audit Report satisfactory to the Bank, including all
the findings and results from the DLI Audit, as well as any additional
certifications from the DLI Audit as the Bank may reasonably request.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financedout of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
InternationalCompetitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Worksand Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than InternationalCompetitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of good, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding subject to the additional provisions contained in paragraph 3 of this
Section; (b) Shopping and (c) Direct Contracting.
- 12 -
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower's National Competitive Bidding Procedures.
The National Competitive Bidding procedures ("NCB") shall be based on the
Open Tendering procedures as defined in the Public Procurement Law ("PPL")
of Albania (Law No. 9643 dated November 20, 2006, as amended), provided,
however, that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines and the following
additional provisions:
(a) 
"Open Tendering" procedures as defined in the PPL of Albania shall
apply to all contracts financed by the Bank.
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process.
Government-owned enterprises in Albania shall be permitted to bid only
if they are legally and financially autonomous and operate under
commercial law of the Borrower. Registration shall not be used to assess
bidders' qualifications.
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the
deadline for submission of bids in the presence of the representatives
who choose to attend.
(d) 
The procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents as approved
by the Bank.
(e) 
In case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all bids
shall not be rejected without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
(f) 
A single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids.
(g) 
Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated
bidder; no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on
qualification grounds.
(h) 
Bidders in the form of a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally
liable.
(i) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the prior concurrence of
the Bank shall be obtained.
(j) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in
accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria.
(k) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
or any other bidder.
- 13 -
(1) 
Contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain
appropriate price adjustment provisions acceptable to the Bank.
(in) 
Bid and contract guarantees shall be in the format included in the bidding
documents referred to in (d) above. The bid guarantee shall be valid for
twenty-eight (28) days beyond the original validity period of the bid, or
beyond any period of extension if requested. No advance payments shall
be made without a suitable advance payment guarantee.
(n) 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the Bank
shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in
the Procurement Guidelines.
(o) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that
bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the
Bank to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them audited
by auditors appointed by the Bank. Without limitation to the provisions
set forth in paragraph 1.16 (a) (v) (bb) of the Procurement Guidelines,
acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's inspection
and audit rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines shall
constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Procurement
Guidelines.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications, (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
-14
- 14 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in Euro) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1)Eligible 
Expenditures 
22,895,000 
100%up to the DLI Amount
Program under Parts 1(a), 
in Annex 2 to Schedule 2 of
2(a) and 3(a) of the Project 
the Agreement
(2) 
Goods, 
works, 
non- 
4,431,750 
100%
consulting 
services, 
and
consultants' 
services,
Training 
and 
Operating
Costs under Parts 1(b), 1(c),
2(b), 2(c) and3(b) and (4) of
the Project
(3) 
Refund 
of 
the 
1,900,000 
Amount payable pursuant
Preparation Advance 
to Section 2.07 (a) of the
General Conditions
- 15 -
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in Euro) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(4) Front-end Fee 
73,250 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
29_300_000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for:
(a) 
payments 
made 
prior 
to the 
date of this Agreement except
thatwithdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed E 5,860,000
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January
1, 2015 for Eligible Expenditures Programs under Category (1) for the
first disbursement provided that the Borrowerhas met the conditions
referred to in (b) and (c) below;
(b) 
payments under Category (1)until the Borrower has furnished evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that DLI 5 has been met; and
(c) 
payments under Category (1) with respect to each DLI metand for which
a withdrawal request has been submitted, unless the Borrower has
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank and defined in the Operations
Manual that payment for Eligible Expenditures Programunder the
Borrower's sector budget lines set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreementhave been made by the Borrower in accordancewith the
Borrower's applicable laws and regulations and Operations Manual.
2. 
Without limitation to the provision set forth in paragraph 1 of Section IV.B of
this Schedule, withdrawals by the Borrower under Category (1) shall be made in
the amount specified in the "DLI Amount" row of the table in Annex 2 to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to submission to the Bank of evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that the DLI (and for which a withdrawal request has
been submitted) has been achieved.
- 16-
3. 
In connection with the foregoing, if the Bank determines, based on the evidence
referred to in Section IV.B.1 (c) and 2 above that:
(a) 
DLI 5 has been met as provided in paragraph 1 (b) above but DLI 1
through DLI 4 have not been met orhave been partially met, then the
proportion of the corresponding DLI Amount shall be reduced in
proportion to the respective degree of DLI achievement in accordance
with the formula set forth in the Operations Manual, and any
unwithdrawn balance of the withdrawal requested for said Year in
respect of such unmet or partially met DLI shall remain available for
subsequent withdrawal; and
(b) 
DLI 5 has not been met as referred to in Section IV.B.1 (b) of this
Schedule, the DLI Amount of E 4,495,000 shall remain available for
subsequent withdrawal once DLI 5 is met in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, or may be cancelled by the Bank.
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:
(a) 
If the Bank has not received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that DLI
5has been met and has withheld disbursement of Loan proceeds under
Category (1) in respect of DLI 1 through DLI 4 that has been achieved,
the Bank, at its sole discretion, may:
(i) 
at a later date when the Bank has received evidence satisfactory
to the Bank, indicating that DLI 5has been met, authorize
withdrawal of the Loan proceeds so withheld in respect of DLI 1
through DLI 4; or
(ii) 
at any time, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the amount of the
Loan proceeds so withheld in respect of DLI 1 through DLI 4 or
reallocate said amount to other DLIs.
(b) 
If the Bank determines, at any time, that any portion of the amounts
disbursed 
by the Borrower under Category (1) was made for
reimbursement of expenditures that are not eligible under the EEPs or not
in compliance with the provisions of paragraphs 1(c)and 2 of Section IV.B
of this Schedule, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such amount to
the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
5. The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
Annex 2
Disbursement Linked Indicators
Borrower's Fiscal Year following Effective Date
DLI DsitTotal
DLI Description, Targets 
Baseline 
proportion of
and Amount 
Loan amount
FY 15 
FY16 
FY17 
FY18 
FY19 
FY20 
(Euromillion)
35 
55 
75
15 in 
(20 in 
(20 in 
(20 in
um50 
addition to 
addition to 
addition to 
addition
Number 
target to be 
target to be 
to target
DLI 1 
0 
achieved in 
achieved in 
to be
Number of 
previous 
previous 
achieved
new online 
Year) 
Year) 
in Year3)
services with
Level 3
Automation 
DLI
Amount
expressed 
2.750 
1.800 
0.900 
0.900 
6.350
in Euro
million)
DLI 2 
BPR To-Be 
BPR To-Be 
BPR To-
Number of 
Number 
0 
0 
maps of 50 
maps of 70 
BPR plan for 
Be maps
70 services
Priority 
services 
services 
executed 
of 100
Public 
produced 
produced 
services
- 18-
Services 
and 
(20 in 
produced
with 
approved 
addition to 
(30 in
Business 
target to be 
addition
Processes 
achieved in 
to target
Re- 
previous 
to be
engineered 
year) 
achieved
(BPR) 
in
previous
year)
DLI
Amount
expressed 
2.750 
0.900 
0.900 
0.900 
5.450
in Euro
million)
110
90 
(20 in 
13
DLI 3 
0 
addition 
(20in
(20 in 
aaddition
Number of 
Number00070addition 
to 
to target 
to target
services 
Number 
0 
0 
0 
70 
target to be 
to be 
to be
sferes wachieved 
in 
achieved 
achieved
improved 
previous 
in 
in
customer 
year) 
previous 
previous
service/ 
DLI 
year)
front office 
Amount
interface 
expressed 
1.400 
0.900 
0.500 
0.500 
3.300
in Euros
million)
Number 
0 
Promotional
Promotional 
Pa
Plan 
Plan
DLI 4 
0 
pan 
executed 
90 
110 
130
prepared for 
for 70
70 services 
ser. 7
Number of 
services
- 19-
services with 
DLI
information 
Amount in
available on 
Euro 
1.300 
0.500 
0.500 
0.500 
0.500 
3.300
multiple 
million)
platforms
Institutional
prerequisites
for Citizen
Institutional 
Centric 
No 
Yes
prerequisites 
Deliver
for Citizen 
Delivery
Centric 
Rfn
.eric 
Program
Service-
Delivery 
DLI
Reform 
Amount
Program 
expressed 
4.495 
0 
0 
0 
0 
4.495
achieved 
in Euro
million)
Total 
4.495 
6.800 
4.600 
3.200 
2.800 
1.000 
22,895,000
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2023, 
3.85%
through January 15, 2035
On July 15, 2035 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-21-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan.
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Eligible Expenditure Programs
Sector Budget Lines
Eligible Expenditure Program - Public Non Budgetary Institutions
Agency 
-
Public 
Non-BudgetaryObetCd&Dsciio
Institutions
Immovable Property Registration Office 
60Slre 
n
601 Social Security Contribution
Eligible Expenditure Program - Budgetary Institutions
Agency - Budgetary 
Line ministry / 
Object Code & 
Program 
Program
Institutions 
Institution code 
Description 
Code 
Description
600 Salaries
.
16 / Municipality 
601 Social 
Civil Register
Ministry of Interior 
coe 
euiy01170 
reod
codes 
Security 
records
Contribution
600 Salaries 
Information
National Agency for 
87/1087006 
601 Social 
01140 
Society
Information Society 
Security
Contribution
600 Salaries
Agency for Delivery of 
601 SoalGna
Integrated Services in 
87/1087017 
601 Social 
01160 
General Public
Security 
Services II
Albania (ADISA)Contribution
- 23 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ADISA" means the Borrower's agencyfor delivery of integrated public services
establishedpursuant to the Borrower's Council of Ministers Decision No. 693, dated
October 22, 2014 (as amended) or its legal successor thereto.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures, set
forth in the Bank's operational manual and identified as OP/BP 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10,
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is amended from time to time.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Call Center" meansa centralized office used by the Borrower to respond to incoming
telephone inquiries about citizen'sadministrative services.
6. 
"Citizen Service Center" or "CSC" means the designated physical space where citizens
obtain services, directly or indirectly managed by ADISA.
7. 
"Citizen Centric Service Delivery Reform Program" means the Borrower's proposed plan
forimproving public services outlined in the Reform Policy Document: Innovation
against Corruption Program2016-2020.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under fBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
datedJanuary 2011 (revised July 2014).
9. 
"Disbursement-Linked Indicators" or "DLIs" means a set of indicators specified in
Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the Operations Manual (as hereinafter
defined), as such indicators refer to specific output and outcome indicators measuring
improved quality and access to the Borrower's administrative services.
10. 
"DLI Audit Report" means any of the reports prepared and furnished to the Bank
pursuant to Section II.C. 1 (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"DLI Amount" means the amount of the Loan proceeds set forth in the rows entitled
"DLI Amount" in the table in Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement for the
corresponding calendar year.
12. 
"DLI Progress Report" means any of the interimunaudited reportswith details on the
measurement of the level of achievement of the DLIs referred to in Section II.C. I (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
- 24 -
13. 
"EEPs" or "Eligible Expenditure Programs" means a set of defined expenditures for
salaries and Social Security Contributions incurred by the Borrower in connection with
the Participating Agencies as indicatedunder the Borrower'ssector budget linesset forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in respect of Parts 1(a), 2(a) and 3(a) of the Project:
14. 
"E-filing" means an electronic based system for the storage, cataloguing, and retrieval of
documents in which citizens can file applications and other documents via a webbased
interface.
15. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" 
or "EMP" 
means 
the Borrower's 
plan
"Environmental Plan for new Construction of Public Service Mall "datedApril 2015 in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,including guidance for mitigating potential
environmental impactswhich might arise from carrying out minor refurbishments of front
officesunder Part 2 (c) of the Project, giving details of measures to manage potential
environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of
ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms,
as such plan may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with prior written
approval of the Bank.
16. 
"E-payment" means electronic payments made for online transactions.
17. 
"FY" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year
18. 
"General 
Conditions" means the 
"International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
19. 
"General Directorate of Civil Status" means the Borrower's civil registries established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 10129 dated November 11, 2009 (as amended)or its
legal successor thereto.
20. 
"ICT" means Information Communication Technology.
21. 
"Institutional Prerequisites for Citizen Centric Service Delivery Reform Program"
meansthe actions and activities referred to in Part 3 (a) of the Project.
22. 
"Inter-Ministerial Public Service Committee" or "IPSC" means a committee established
by the Borrower pursuant to Order No. 176 dated October 16, 2013 for coordinating and
overseeing the process of introducing reforms in public services, and referred to in
Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"IPRO" means the Borrower's Immovable Property Registration Officeor its legal
successor thereto.
24. 
"Level 3 Automation" means services with transactional web presence, including
electronic authentication, e-filing and e-payments and defined in the UN e-Government
Survey 
(2014): 
http://unpan3.un.org/egovkb/Portals/egovkb/Documents/un/2014-Survev/E-
Gov Complete Survey-2014.pdf.
- 25 -
25. 
"MI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior or its legal successor thereto.
26. 
"Ministerial Working Groups" means a group of ministerial officials established and
operating pursuant to the Prime Minister's Order, No. 236 dated September 24, 2014 and
referred to in Section 1.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"MIPA" 
means the Borrower's Minister of State for Innovation and Public
Administration or itslegal successor thereto.
28. 
"National Agency for Information Society" means an institution established pursuant to
the Decision of the Council of Ministers, No. 703 dated December 29, 2014 (as amended)
or the legal successor thereto.
29. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses arising under the Project
and consisting of expenditures for the maintenance of equipment, purchasing of office
equipment, supplies, communication costs, advertising and fuel costs for field visits
(excluding salaries of Government civil servants).
30. 
"Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual satisfactory to the Bank and adopted
by the Borrower, and referred to in Section 1.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
including all appendices and schedules thereto, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
31. 
"Participating Agencies" means the following Borrower's institutions, namely, ADISA,
IPRO, National Agency for Information Society and Ministry of Interior's General
Directorate of Civil Status.
32. 
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
33. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions, granted by the Bank/ to the Borrower pursuant to the executed letter
agreement approved by Parliament on June 11, 2015.
34. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" datedJanuary 2011 (revised July 2014).
35. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June
18, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
36. 
"PSC" means the Project Steering Committee referred to in Section 1.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
37. 
"Selected Administrative Services" means the list of services selected by the Borrower in
accordance with criteria set forth in the Operations Manual, as the same may be amended
from to time with the Bank's prior written concurrence.
- 26 -
38. 
"Social Security Contribution" means a financial contribution provided by the Borrower
for the citizens' benefits in accordance with Law. No. 7703 dated May 11, 1993 (as
amended).
39. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs associated with the training, workshops and study
tours, participation of personnel involved in Project activities, said costs to consist of
travel and subsistence for training, costs associated with securing the services of trainers,
rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of training and
workshop materials, and other costs directly related to training courses (but excluding
costs of consulting services).
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Banka front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
