OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER IBRD 8505-EC
Loan Agreement
(Guayaquil Wastewater Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA MUNICIPAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO
DE GUAYAQUIL, EP EMAPAG EP
Dated 
20'16 
9 
201_&
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
-v'0- F 
9 
, 201Ibetween EMPRESA MUNICIPAL DE
AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO 
DE GUAYAQUIL, EP EMAPAG EP ("Borrower" or
"EMAPAG 
EP") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and two million and five hundred thousand
US Dollars (US$102,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall, through the PIU, carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that the Concession
Agreement has been amended, suspended, terminated, abrogated, repealed, waived,
whether in whole or in part, or the Borrower failed to enforce or comply with, any of its
provisions, in a manner that may affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its General Manager.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
EMPRESA 
MUNICIPAL DE 
AGUA 
POTABLE 
Y 
ALCANTARILLADO 
DE
GUAYAQUIL, EP EMAPAG EP
Avenida Francisco de Orellana s/n y Miguel H. Alcivar
Edificio Las Cdmaras, Mezzanine
Guayaquil, Ecuador
Facsimile: (5934) 2682-225
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED at 7'Tr 
f (///'4, 
r/X
6 r 
-iAivW.q 
as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK 
R
RECONSTRUCTION AND 
V 
ENT
By
Authorized Rep 
tative
Name: 
-c/ 26 
f/iu 
/ gL
Title: 
r< 
{/re6 
atdeC67
EMPRESA MUNICIPAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y
ALCANTARILLADO DE GUAYAQUIL,
EP EMAPAG EP
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
FRANCtsCO 
A 
/
Title: 
Acvi 
smce or EcuRco-
TO THE 
AA6 
Teo STeS or 
ac
-4-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to increase access to improved sanitation services and to
reduce wastewater pollution in Selected Areas of the City of Guayaquil.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1 Installation of Household Connections
Provision of support for the increasing of effective access to sewerage collection services within
Selected Areas of the City of Guayaquil, through the installation and rehabilitation of household
connections.
Part 2 Rehabilitation of Sewera2e Network
Provision of support for the rehabilitation of the sewerage network (including sections in the
primary, secondary and tertiary network) in Selected Areas of the City of Guayaquil, for the
purposes of reducing wastewater loses and enabling their effective collection function.
Part 3 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Facilities
Provision of support for:
(a) 
the construction of: (i) a new wastewater treatment plant "Las Esclusas" and the
associated pumping and transmission facilities at Guasmo-Hpumping station; and
(ii) pumping and transmission facilities at La Pradera pre-treatment station; and
(b) 
the specialized independent supervision of the construction of the facilities
described in paragraph (a) above.
Part 4 Proiect Management. Administration, Communication Plan and Management of
Social, Environmental and Safety Issues
Provision of support for: (i) activities associated with overall Project management by the Borrower,
including those pertaining to the management of social, environmental and safety matters under the
Project; (ii) Project-related audits; (iii) monitoring and evaluation activities; (iv) necessary
equipment; (v) minor works required for the refurbishment of the PIU's office; (vi) technical
assistance; and (vii) training.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project a unit (the PIU),
responsible for the management, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of
the Project, with structure, responsibilities and key staff with functions, experience,
responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational
Manual, including procurement, financial management, environmental and social
safeguards specialists.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational
Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules, methods, guidelines,
standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including the
following: (a) the detailed description of Project implementation activities and the detailed
institutional arrangements of the Project; (b) the Project administrative, accounting,
auditing, reporting, financial, procurement and disbursement procedures; (c) the
monitoring indicators for the Project; and (d) the ESIA, the ESMPs, and RAP, and specific
mechanisms for their implementation, when applicable. In the event that any provision of
the Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall on a date to be agreed with the Bank, but in no case later than twenty-
four (24) months after the Effective Date, carry out a review with the Bank on the overall
progress and implementation arrangements in the execution of the Project and set out the
measures and take any remedial action as a result of such review, as agreed with the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, not later than December 31, 2017, shall enter into an agreement with
INTERAGUA (the Transfer Agreement) for the purposes of transferring to INTERAGUA,
for its operation and maintenance, the new facilities and sewer mains to be constructed
under the Project.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-6-
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out Parts 1 and 2 of the Project in accordance/compliance with their
respective Environmental and Social Management Plan ("ESMP");
(b) 
carry out Part 3 of the Project in accordance/compliance with the ESMP, the
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) and the Resettlement Action
Plan; and
(c) 
refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of the Safeguard Documents,
whether in whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
2. 
Prior to the commencement of the civil works under the Project, the Borrower shall ensure
that:
(a) 
all necessary governmental permits and clearances for such civil works, shall have
been obtained from the competent Guarantor's authority/ies and submitted to the
Bank;
(b) 
if applicable, that the Safeguard Documents have been revised, updated and
disclosed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) 
all resettlement measures under Part 3(a)(i) of the Project set forth in the RAP for
such civil works shall have been fully executed; and
(d) 
all land acquisition required for such civil works under Part 3(a)(i) of the Project
shall have been concluded and such land shall be free of encumbrances and ready
to be handed over to the winning bidder, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the contracts for civil works under the Project includes the
obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant Safeguard Documents
applicable to such civil works commissioned/awarded pursuant to said contract.
4. 
The Borrower, not later than December 31, 2017, prepare, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, a master plan for the future management and final disposal/reuse of bio-solids
generated by the new wastewater treatment plant "Las Esclusas" to be constructed under
Part 3(a)(i) of the Project.
-7-
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the
Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements of the Project audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, or any other period
required as agreed upon with the Bank. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.
4. 
For purposes of paragraph 3 above, the Borrower shall: (i) send the terms of reference for
the audit for Bank's no objection not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date;
(ii) select and contract, by no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the services of a
qualified and experienced auditor, acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to serve as independent external auditor for a period of at least
three (3) consecutive years.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-8-
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and m of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional
provisions referred to in Section HI.E of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement); (b) Shopping
(subject to the additional provisions referred to in Section Hl.E of this Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, when applicable); and (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-9-
E. 
Special Provisions
1. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this
Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services under National Competitive
Bidding procedures under this Section:
(a) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the
responsive bidder which meets appropriate technical and financial standards of
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank. Such determination shall be made exclusively on
the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria, stipulated in the
bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid
amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as
quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
(b) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents or
used for the purposes of evaluation.
(c) 
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids submitted for a contract to
be subsequently awarded.
(d) 
The bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank, and include the
anticorruption clauses as provided by section 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines.
(e) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB without restriction and shall
not be subject to any unjustified requirement which will affect their ability to bid
such as, but not limited to, the requirement to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with the
Ecuadorian Consulate, the Guarantor's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any
authority as a prerequisite of bidding, or be required to enter into a joint venture
agreement with local bidders.
(f) 
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
(g) 
The single envelope procedure shall be used.
(h) 
All bids shall be opened at the stipulated time and place in accordance with a
procedure acceptable to the Bank.
(i) 
A merit point system shall not be used in the pre-qualification and post-
qualification of bidders.
(j) 
The award of contracts for goods, works and non-consulting services shall be based
exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors
similar to those referred to in paragraphs 2.52 and 2.53 of the Procurement
-10-
Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
(k) 
Whenever a discrepancy shall occur between the amounts in figures and the
amounts in words of a bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
(1) 
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second
lowest responsive evaluated bid.
(in) 
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents and standard evaluation
formats, all satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the
procurement of consultants' services:
(a) 
The Borrower shall use standard requests for proposals and standard evaluation
formats, all satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
The invitation to submit proposals should be sent to the consulting firms included
in a short list only as approved by the Bank. The invitation to submit proposals
should not be open to any other consulting firm.
(c) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to take an action that could deter their
ability to participate such as, but not limited to, be locally registered, give any
participation to or enter into a joint venture with a local firm or individual,
authenticate (legalizar) any documentation related to their participation in the
selection process with Ecuadorian authorities or to be registered in the Guarantor's
National Registry of Suppliers (Registro Nacional de Proveedores).
(d) 
Consultants (firms and individuals) shall not be required to present proposals and
performance securities as a condition to present proposals and/or sign a
consultants' contract.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower shall withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
- 11 -
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, non-consulting 
2,800,000 
100%
services and consultants'
services under Part 1 of the
Project
(2) Works, non-consulting 
37,000,000 
100%
services, and consultants'
services under Part 2 of the
Project
(3) (a) Works and non- 
50,750,000 
52%
consulting services under Part
3(a)(i) of the Project
(b) Consultants' services 
7,750,000 
100%
under Part 3 (b)
(4) Goods, small works, non- 
4,200,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services and
Training under Part 4 of the
Project
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
102,500,000
For the purposes of this Section, the term "Training" means expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training,
seminars, and workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (e.g. accommodations,
- 12 -
transportation costs and per diem) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), catering, rental of training
facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials and equipment
under the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$20,500,000 equivalent may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after January 5, 2015, for Eligible
Expenditures under Categories (1), (2), and (4); or
(c) 
for payments under Categories (3)(a) and (3)(b) unless the Co-financing
Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under it have
been fulfilled.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
Section V. 
Other Undertakin2s
A. 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any Debt,
unless the Net Revenues for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least one (1) time the estimated
maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) 
The term "Debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by its
terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
- 13 -
(iii) 
The term "Net Revenues" means the difference between: (A) the sum of
revenues from all sources related to operations and Net Non-Operating
Income; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv) 
The term "Net Non-Operating Income" means the difference between: (A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; and (B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the
generation of revenues in (A) above.
- 14 -
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Repayment Date 
Percentage
September 1, 2030 
9.41444%
March 1,2031 
8.23030%
September 1, 2031 
7.50620%
March 1, 2032 
6.84590%
September 1, 2032 
6.24360%
March 1, 2033 
5.69440%
September 1,2033 
5.19340%
March 1, 2034 
4.73650%
September 1, 2034 
4.31980%
March 1, 2035 
3.93980%
September 1, 2035 
3.59320%
March 1, 2036 
3.27710%
September 1, 2036 
2.98880%
March 1, 2037 
2.72590%
September 1, 2037 
2.48610%
March 1, 2038 
2.26740%
September 1,2038 
2.06790%
March 1,2039 
1.88600%
September 1, 2039 
1.72010%
March 1,2040 
1.56870%
September 1, 2040 
1.43070%
March 1,2041 
1.30490%
September 1, 2041 
1.19010%
March 1, 2042 
1.08540%
- 15-
Repayment Date 
Percentage
September 1, 2042 
0.98990%
March 1, 2043 
0.90280%
September 1, 2043 
0.82340%
March 1, 2044 
0.75090%
September 1, 2044 
0.68490%
March 1, 2045 
0.62460%
September 1, 2045 
0.56970%
March 1, 2046 
0.51960%
September 1, 2046 
0.47390%
March 1, 2047 
0.43220%
September 1, 2047 
0.39420%
March 1, 2048 
0.35950%
September 1, 2048 
0.32790%
March 1, 2049 
0.29900%
September 1, 2049 
0.07758%
March 1, 2050 
0.05328%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
-16-
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 17 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"City of Guayaquil" means the capital of the Ecuadorian province of Guayas, located on
the western bank of the Guayas River, which flows into the Pacific Ocean at the Gulf of
Guayaquil.
4. 
"Co-financier" means the European Investment Bank.
5. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of $102,500,000 to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in the
financing of Part 3 of the Project.
6. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
7. 
"Concession Agreement" means the agreement between ECAPAG (Empresa Cantonal de
Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Guayaquil) and INTERAGUA for the provision of water
and sanitation services to the City of Guayaquil dated April 11, 2001. On September 28,
2012, and through Municipal Order (Ordenanza Municipal) of the same date, EMAPAG
EP took over the rights and responsibilities of ECAPAG EP with respect to the Concession
Agreement.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
9. 
"EMAPAG EP" means Empresa Municipal de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de
Guayaquil, EP EMAPAG EP, a company duly established and operating on the territory
of the Guarantor pursuant to Municipal Order (Ordenanza Municipal) dated September 28,
2012, published in the City of Guayaquil's official gazette on October 1, 2012 and its
subsequent reform published in the City of Guayaquil's official gazette on December 5,
2012.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment or ESIA" means the environmental and
social impact assessment prepared by the Borrower dated February 25, 2015, acceptable to
the Bank, and published on the Bank's InfoShop and the Borrower's web page
www.emapag-ep.gob.ec on February 26, 2015, which assessment evaluates the likely
- 18 -
positive and negative environmental and social impact of Project activities, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence from the Bank.
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan or ESMP" means each of the three plans for
Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project prepared by the Borrower, published all three in the Bank's
InfoShop on February 26, 2015 and in the Borrower's website on February 26, 2015
(www.emapag-ep.gob.ec), as such plans may be amended from time to time with the prior
approval of the Bank. Each plan shall include, inter alia: (a) specific activities, budget and
responsibilities to ensure the implementation of measures to avoid, minimize and/or
mitigate potential direct and indirect environmental impacts associated with the applicable
Part of the Project; (b) measures for the protection of natural habitats; and (c) procedures
for the screening of any physical cultural resources in the Project area and incorporating
"chance find" procedures in the event that culturally significant resources are discovered
during Project implementation.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
13. 
"Guarantor" means the Republic of Ecuador.
14. 
"INTERAGUA" means the private consortium in charge of operating the water supply and
sewerage systems of the City of Guayaquil.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 24, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the Borrower's resettlement action plan for Part 3 of
the Project dated February 20, 2015, acceptable to the Bank, and published in the Bank's
InfoShop and in the Borrower's website on February 20, 2015 (www.emapag-ep.gob.ec),
as such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank, which
includes, inter alia: a program of actions, measures and policies for compensation of
persons, including compensation arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of
funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with
its terms for each site.
18. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated February 24, 2015 prepared by the
Borrower for the operation of the Project referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-19-
19. 
"Safeguards Documents" means the ESIA, ESMPs and the RAP.
20. 
"Selected Areas" means any eligible area within the City of Guayaquil that meets the
criteria established in the Operational Manual.
21. 
"Transfer Agreement" means Acta de Entrega y Recepci6n de Obra, the agreement referred
to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
- 20 -
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
- 21 -
