OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8494-GE
Loan Agreement
(Third Regional Development Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8494-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
* 
-, 
,2015,
between 
GEORGIA 
("Borrower") 'and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). 
The Borrower and the
Bank hereby agree as follows.
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or
in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Dollars
(US$60.000.000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described
in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one
quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a
rate equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable
Spread, provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with
the 
relevant provisions 
of Article 
IV of the General 
Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a
period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead
be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06 
he Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year
2.07 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent
debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn 
or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency: (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or
vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread, and (iii) the setting of limits
on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as
defined in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in
accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To
this end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists namely of the following, that
the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, materially and adversely, the
ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists namely of the following, that
the event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Ministry of
Finance 
and 
the 
Ministry 
for 
Regional 
Development 
and
Infrastructure 
on 
behalf of the 
Borrower 
and 
the 
Project
Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has adopted the Operation Manual,
in form and substance. satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of namely of the following, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement.
-31-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995-32-2262423
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington. D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Tbilisi. Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
) 
'k 
rz f
Title: 
( 
/
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorizd epresentative
Name:-
Title: 
Qj V, 
C]6 
i& 
/fc2'-p
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve infrastructure services and
institutional capacity to support increased contribution of tourism in the local
economy of the Samtskhe-Javakheti and Mtskheta-Mtianeti regions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part I Infrastructure Investment
(a) 
Provision of Investment Subproject Financing, on a grant basis. to
Participating LSGs to finance Investment Subprojects for urban regeneration of old
towns and villages in the Samtskhe-Javakheti and Mtskheta-Mtianeti 
regions
including, but not limited to, restoration of building facades and roofs, public spaces,
museums, roads and water supply, and enhancement of cultural and natural heritage
sites (as well as tourism facilities and access to and presentation of sites).
(b) 
Provision of Investment Subproject Financing, on a grant basis, to
Participating LSGs to finance Investment Subprojects for the creation of public
infrastructure to attract private sector investments in tourism or agribusiness in the
Samtskhe-Javakheti and Mtskheta-Mtianeti regions including, but not limited to
construction of roads, sidewalks, and water, sanitation, communications and public
facilities.
Part 2: Institutional Development
Provision of goods, non-consultant services, consultants' services, and
Training, as well as financing of Operating Costs to enhance the institutional capacity
and performance of GNTA, NACHP, Georgia National Museum. the Project
Implementing Entity, and other concerned local and regional entities to carry out
activities including the following:
(a) 
Setting up of a destination management office in each of the regions
of Samtskhe-Javakheti and Mtskheta-Mtianeti to assist in the creation of an
institutional framework to ensure proper destination management, public-private-
partnership and sustainability of investments made in each region.
(b) 
Development and implementation of marketing and promotion tools
in each of the Samtskhe-Javakheti and Mtskheta-Mtianeti regions to promote each
region as a new sustainable tourism destination and to assist in creating a mechanism
for community participation, stakeholders' consultation and involvement of local
government in developing tourism in the region.
(c) 
Preparation of sustainable site management plans for cultural heritage
sites financed under the Project as well as provision of on-the job training to NACHP.
-6-
(d) 
Provision of Training for skilled workforce development and
capacity building to selected beneficiaries (including hotel staff, tour operators and
guides. and officials at the GNTA, NACHP, Georgia National Museum and the
Project Implementing 
Entity) aimed at 
producing an 
integrated 
workforce
development program around the skills needed in tourism-related businesses in the
Samtskhe-Javakheti and Mtskheta-Mtianeti regions.
(e) 
Provision of cultural heritage advisory services to the NACHP aimed
at: (i) overseeing the preparation process of Mtskheta World Heritage Site master
plan, in compliance with the World Heritage Committee's decisions; (ii) establishing
advisory service on the World Heritage Sites Tentative List for Georgia and
providing assistance to NACHP in preparing nomination files for inscription; (iii)
providing on-the-job capacity building to NACHP and municipalities on cultural
heritage preservation and site management plans; and (iv) promoting cultural heritage
as an unique tourism product in both the national tourism strategy and the global Silk
Road initiative (which initiative is being led by the United Nations World Tourism
Organization to revive the historical silk route).
(f) 
Provision of business start-up/expansion advisory service to tourism
and agribusiness medium and small enterprises to enhance 
their business
development capacity, and build credit with local and national financial institutions.
(g) 
Enhancing capacity for performance monitoring and evaluation
activities in the tourism sector in the Samtskhe-Javakheti and Mtskheta-Mtianeti
regions (including, designing and conducting seasonal surveys to determine the
number and origin of visitors, spending activities, and satisfaction levels, and
gathering baseline data from both formal and informal tourism enterprises) and
introduce ways to monitor the effectiveness of efforts as well as monitoring the
Project's results indicators annually.
(h) 
Provision of technical assistance to the Project Implementing Entity
for outreach and public awareness campaigns, preparation of feasibility studies of
potential Investment Subprojects, and design and construction supervision and
financing of Operating Costs.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Supervisory Board of the Project
Implementing Entity, chaired by the Prime Minister of Georgia, with
responsibilities 
including inter alia: 
(a) overall 
supervision of the
implementation of the Project; (b) inter-agency coordination to achieve the
Project objective; and (c) review and approval of the annual work programs'
budgets and reports for the operation of the Project Implementing Entity.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, an operation manual ("Operation Manual") setting out the
operational and administrative procedures for Project implementation
including: (i) procurement and financial management procedures;
(ii) eligibility criteria for the selection of Investment Subprojects in
Participating LSGs; (iii) terms and 
conditions for Investment
Subproject Financing, (iv) procurement and 
implementation of
Investment 
Subprojects; 
(v) the 
staffing, 
management 
and
responsibilities 
of 
the 
Project 
Implementing 
Entity; 
(vi)
implementation of the ESMF: (vii) implementation of the RPF; and
(viii) establishment and implementation of a grievance redress
mechanism;
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with an Operation Manual that
has been approved by the Bank; and
(c) 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval. any proposed amendment
to the provisions of the Operation Manual and, thereafter, put into
effect such amendment as shall have been agreed with the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity, on a grant
basis, pursuant to a subsidiary agreement to be signed by the Borrower,
through MOF and MRDI, and the Project Implementing Entity, with terms
and conditions approved by the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement").
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
-8-
abrogate, waive, fail to enforce or terminate the Subsidiary Agreement or any
of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
Environmental Management
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
following:
(a) 
(i) Implement the ESMF (including, carrying out Environmental,
Social and Cultural Resource Screenings, as well as Environmental
and Social Review, as required) and the environmental management
plans prepared pursuant thereto, all in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank and necessary to ensure that the Project is implemented in
accordance with sound environmental practices and standards, and
(ii) prior to initiation of the procurement of works concerned, prepare
and disclose, and carry out stakeholder consultation on, the
environmental management plan satisfactory to the Bank and
thereafter, said EMP shall be submitted along with the draft bidding
documents for the procurement of said works and form part of the
tender documents.
(b) 
Provide to the Bank for its prior review any revision proposed to be
introduced into any of the ESMF or EMPs, as the case may be, in
order to achieve their respective objectives, and thereafter introduce
such revision into the documents as shall have been agreed with the
Bank.
(c) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank. the
implementation of the Environmental and Social Management
Framework and EMPs and the achievement of their respective
objectives.
Resettlemeni
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
following:
(a) 
(i) Wherever implementation of the 
Project, any 
Investment
Subproject, or any part thereof, would give rise to Affected Persons,
provide to the Bank for its review, resettlement action plans prepared
in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the RPF
and, thereafter, implement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. such
resettlement action plans as shall have been accepted by the Bank as
being satisfactory; and (ii) works on any specific Project site that
give rise to Affected Persons shall not commence until the respective
RAP is fully implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
Provide to the Bank for its prior review, any revision proposed to be
introduced into the RPF or RAP, as the case may be, to achieve the
respective document's objectives, and thereafter introduce such
revision into such document as shall have been agreed with the Bank.
(c) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the
implementation of the RPF and RAPs, and the achievement of their
respective objectives.
Grievance Redress Mechanism
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish and
implement, throughout the Project implementation, an easily accessible
grievance redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address feedback
and grievances relating to the Project as set forth in the Operation Manual.
International Waterways
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure, when
any activity under an Investment Subproject will involve any international
waterway (as defined in the Bank's Operational Policy 7.50), that:
(a) 
such activity shall be limited to ongoing schemes, projects involving
additions or alterations that require rehabilitation, construction, or
other changes that: (i) will not adversely change the quality or
quantity of water flows to the other riparian; and (ii) will not be
adversely affected by the other riparian's possible water use; and
(b) 
such activity shall be limited to only minor additions or alterations to
the ongoing scheme and it does not cover works and activities that
would exceed the original scheme, change its nature, or so alter or
expand its scope and extent as to make it appear new or different
scheme.
-10-
Section I. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports 
in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity, shall have the
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with
the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV
of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of
particular contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11
and Ill of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections I. Ill, IV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines. as the case may be.
-1 1-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below. goods, works and non-consulting services shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. 
The following methods, other than International Competitive
Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting
services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in below:
(i) 
"Open competitive procedures" (i.e. "public tender") shall
be the default rule. A single envelope procedure shall be
used for the submission of goods, works, or non-consulting
services.
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.
Advertisements published in foreign language newspapers
shall be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum in
number of days for bids preparation and submission.
(iii) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
If
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible
bidders for reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources
to successfully perform 
the contract (e.g., mandatory
membership in professional organizations, classification,
etc). Post-qualification shall be conducted to verify that the
bidder has the capability and resources to successfully
perform the contract.
(iv) 
Borrower-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are
legally 
and 
financially 
autonomous. 
operate 
under
commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the
Borrower. Borrower-owned enterprises will be subject to
the same bid and performance security requirements as other
bidders.
(v) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank's sample
bidding documents. including pre-qualification documents,
-12-
Procurement Method
for the procurement of goods, works, or non-consulting
services, and such documents shall contain draft contract
and conditions of contract including clauses on fraud and
corruption, audit and publication of award, all acceptable to
the Bank.
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public immediately after the
deadline for submission of bids. 
Bidder*s representatives
shall be permitted to attend the bid opening.
(vii) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be
requested without the prior approval of the Bank.
(viii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria
expressed in monetary terms as defined in the bidding
documents, 
no merit point system 
and no domestic
preference shall be used in the evaluation of bids. Contracts
shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the
lowest evaluated substantially 
responsive bid and 
no
negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract award.
(ix) 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than
eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price
adjustment clause.
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the bas:s that the bid price
is higher than the estimated budget for that procurement.
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without
the Bank's prior concurrence.
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procur.d under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants* services for those contracts which are specified
in the Procurement Plan:
-13-
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) 
Single-Source Selection of consulting firms
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1-5.5 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) 
Single-source 
procedures 
for 
the 
Selection 
of Individual
Consultants
(h) 
Selection of United Nation Agencies
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to
the Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"). the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-14-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Financed
Category 
(expressed in USS) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
59,050,000 
80%
consulting services,
consultants' services and
Training
(2) Operating Costs 
800,000 
80%
(3) Front-end Fee 
150,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall
be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$12,000,000
equivalent, may be made for payments made prior to the date of this
Agreement but on or after April 11. 2015, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1)
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
I. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and
the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each
Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan
have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
-15-
Payment 
Date shall 
be 
determined 
by 
the 
Bank 
by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date- by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning December 15, 2029. 
4.55%
through December 15, 2039
On June 15, 2040 
4.45%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with
paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall
be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying
the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of
which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in
paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date
("Original Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the
sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal
Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of
calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment
Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this
paragraph. if at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system
under which invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal
-16-
Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing
system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon
a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency
that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the
Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion
by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge
Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of
the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the
amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate
amortization schedule for each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i)
relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss
of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or.net such persons must
move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on
the livelihood of such person, and "Affected Persons" means, collectively, all
such Affected Persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January
2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
-Environmental and Social Management Framework" or *ESMF" means the
Environmental and Social Management 
Framework disclosed by the
Borrower on its website on February 12, 2015, and in the Bank's Infoshop on
February 18, 2015, which sets forth the policies and procedures for: carrying
out Environmental, Social and Cultural Resource Screenings; conducting
Environmental and Social Reviews; and the preparation of the environmental
management plans (including, the requirements for mitigation measures to be
included in environmental management plans).
6. 
"Environmental and Social Review" or "ESR" means a review of a proposed
investment subproject, which has been classified as high risk environmental
Category B through the ESCR carried out in accordance with the ESMF, to
study the biophysical environment in and around the proposed investment
subproject site, to identify and assess any potential environmental, social and
cultural resource impacts of implementation of such subproject, evaluate
alternatives, and design appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring
measures.
7. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" 
or 
"EMP" 
means 
any 
specific
environmental management plan developed for an Investment Subproject in
accordance with the ESMF and satisfactory to the Bank.
-18-
8. 
-Environmental, Social and Cultural Resource Screening" or "ESCRS"
means a mandatory review of each proposed investment subprojects under
Parts 1(a) and 1(b) of the Project, carried out in accordance with the ESMF,
with the purpose of categorizing them by expected environmental risks and
impacts, filtering out proposals based on degree of 
detriment to the
environment, identifying a need for preparing an environment management
plan and determining appropriate extent and type of environmental, social
and cultural resource review to be applied to the proposed investment
subprojects accepted for further processing.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"GNTA" means the Georgian National Tourism Administration of the
Borrower.
I1. 
"Investment Subproject Financing Agreement" means any agreement entered
into between the Project Implementing Entity and a Participating LSG for the
provision of Investment Subproject Financing to carry out an Investment
Subproject, and "Investment Subproject Financing Agreements" means.
collectively all such agreements.
12. 
"Investment Subproject Financing" means a grant made by the Project
Implementing Entity, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a Participating LSG
in accordance with the provisions of Section LID of Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
13. 
"Investment Subproject" means an investment subproject under Part 1(a) or
Part 1(b) of the Project to be carried out by a Participating LSG utilizing the
proceeds of Investment Subproject Financing and made available pursuant to
an 
Investment 
Subproject 
Financing 
Agreement, 
and 
"Investment
Subprojects" means, collectively, all such subprojects.
14. 
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto.
15. 
"MRDI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Regional Development and
Infrastructure or any successor thereto.
16. 
"NACHP" means the National Agency for Culture Heritage Preservation of
Georgia.
17. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable and necessary incremental expenses
incurred by the Project Implementing Entity with respect to Project
implementation, management and monitoring, and outreach and awareness
campaigns including, the costs of support staff salaries (excluding salaries of
the Borrower's civil service staff), communication, editing, printing and
publication, translation, vehicle operation and maintenance, bank charges,
-19-
local travel costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, utilities and supplies,
based on an annual budget agreed with the Bank.
18. 
"Operation Manual" means the manual prepared by the Project Implementing
Entity pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be adopted by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to
Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement 
and which manual 
includes the
Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement
Policy Framework, as such Operation Manual may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
19. 
"Participating LSG" means: (a) a Local Self Government established and
operating by virtue of the Borrower's Organic Law (Local Self-Government
Code) No. 1958-11-b of February 5, 2014; (b) a Borrower national agency or
entity (for example, NACHP, the Agency of Protected Areas and the Georgia
National Museum); or (c) administration of religious organizations, which
has been selected for the carrying out of an Investment Subproject in
accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the
Operation Manual.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods.
Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
21. 
"Procurement 
Plan" means the procurement plan for the Project dated
February 20. 2015, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
22. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Charter of MDF
established pursuant to Decree No. 118 of the Government of Georgia dated
July 23, 2005. as amended to date.
23. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "MDF" means the Municipal Development
Fund of Georgia established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 294 of the
President of Georgia. dated June 7, 1997, as amended to date.
24. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a specific resettlement action
plan developed for an Investment Subproject in accordance with the RPF and
satisfactory to 
the 
Bank, 
and "Resettlement 
Action 
Plans" 
means,
collectively, all such Resettlement Action Plans.
25. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy
framework disclosed by the Borrower on its website on February 12, 2015,
and in the Bank's Infoshop on February 18, 2015, which sets forth inter alia:
(a) the description of areas covered by the Project; (b) the legal basis and
screening process for land acquisition, resettlement and land 
use in
connection with works and construction activities to be carried out under the
-20-
Project: (c) the resettlement principles and entitlements of Affected Persons
based on different categories of impact; (d) the procedures for consultation,
valuation. compensation, 
livelihoods restoration and other assistance
provided to the Affected Persons, including the grievance process; and (e) the
responsibilities, procedures and requirements for the development and
implementation of site-specific RAPs.
26. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph I of
Section L.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower
shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing
Entity.
27. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred by the Project Implementing Entity
in connection with carrying out training activities under Part 2 of the Project,
including travel costs and per diem for local trainees, study tours, workshops,
conferences, and non-degree fellowships, rental of facilities and equipment
and training materials and related supplies based on a semi-annual budget
agreed with the Bank.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and
Section numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the
paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee, Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end
Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on
the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan
Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge
shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on
each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix. Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the
following definition of "Commitment 
Charge", and renumbering the
subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
-19. 
"Commitment 
Charge" 
means the commitment charge
specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix,
the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to
Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix,
the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan
Parties to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these
General Conditions, including (but not limited to) any amount of the
Withdrawn 
Loan 
Balance, 
interest, the 
Front-end 
Fee, 
the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any),
any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or
early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge
(if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix,
the definition of -Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and
inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
