LOAN NUMBER 8093-AR
Loan Agreement
(Socio-Economic Inclusion in Rural Areas Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty-two million five hundred
thousand dollars, ($52,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to; (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa ;or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out Parts 1, 3(a) and 4 of the Project through
MAGyP; (b) if applicable, cause: (i) the pertinent Participating Province to cause
each Beneficiary Community to carry out the corresponding Rural Investment
Subproject; or (ii) the pertinent Beneficiary Community to carry out the
corresponding Rural Investment Subproject with the assistance of the MAGyP,
all in accordance with the provisions of the corresponding Rural Investment
-3 -
Subproject Agreement; and (c) cause each Producer Organization to carry out the
pertinent Productive Alliance Subproject with the assistance of MAGyP, and in
accordance with the provisions of the corresponding Productive Alliance
Subproject Agreement; all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through MAGyP, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Operational Manual has been duly adopted by the Borrower, through
MAGyP.
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the Signature Date, but
in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the
Loan which expire on December 9, 2016.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas Piiblicas
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO 
121942-AR 
(5411) 4349-8815
DE ECONOMIA
Baires
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Bank on Novmex 43 Zo1,
and on behalf of the Borrower on 
rt-Mr 
1 2Q1 r
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Aut or* 
Representa ve
INTERNATIONAL B 
K OR
RECONSTRUCTIO 
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authoriz 
epresent ive
ACUERO MEyFP NO 188/15
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the socio-economic inclusion of rural
poor (small producers, indigenous peoples, and rural workers) by: (a) strengthening their
organizational, planning and management capacity to achieve poverty-reduction goals;
(b) improving their access to community infrastructure and services; and (c) piloting a
new model for developing sustainable access to markets.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Capacity Development
Carrying out of capacity-building activities for purposes of increasing the impact
of development actions on targeted rural groups, consisting of: (a) the provision of
technical support to communities and organizations of small producers, indigenous
peoples and rural workers, through the carrying out of activities aimed at improving their
organizational, planning and management capacity; and (b) the provision of technical
support to strengthen the capacity of targeted rural groups through the preparation of
studies, strategies and planning instruments aimed at the local level, all under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
Part 2: Rural Livelihood
Carrying out of demand-driven investments/activities aimed at improving the
living conditions of the targeted poor rural communities and consisting of, inter alia,
small-scale investments such as the rehabilitation or construction of rural community
infrastructures, the provision of support aimed at improving agricultural production, the
carrying out of food-security activities and natural resources management, and the
construction or improvement of household water and sanitation systems.
Part 3: Access to Markets
Provision of support for the identification, formulation and implementation of
Productive Alliances Subprojects through: (a) the carrying out of activities for the
promotion and preparation of Productive Alliances Subprojects, including, inter alia: (i)
the realization of a promotional campaign targeted at potential Producer Organizations
and Buyers; (ii) the formulation of alliance profiles reflecting joint expressions of interest
by Producer Organizations and potential Buyers; (iii) the provision of support for the
process of evaluating, ranking and approving Productive Alliances Subprojects; (iv) the
provision of training to Producer Organizations on the design and negotiation of alliance
business plans which may eventually result in Productive Alliances; and (v) the provision
of support for the preparation of Productive Alliance Subproject Agreements and related
documentation, all acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the carrying out of Productive
-6-
Alliance-driven 
investments/activities 
(such as small-scale civil works and the
improvement of the production processes and production quality standards of Producer
Organizations) for purposes of developing sustainable access to markets for Producer
Organizations based on Productive Alliances.
Part 4: Project Management
Provision of operational support to the Borrower, through UCAR, in the
implementation, coordination, administration, monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through MAGyP, shall operate and maintain, at all times during
Project implementation: (a) the UCAR, with a structure, functions and
responsibilities adequate for the carrying out of the Project, which shall include,
inter alia, the responsibility of the fiduciary management of the Project at the
central level (which consists of, inter alia, the approval of annual work plans and
related costs, the monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and the oversight of
procurement activities and compliance with the Environmental and Social
Management Framework); and (b) within UCAR, a network of coordination units
at the provincial level, all with a structure, functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the responsibility for day-
to-day technical implementation of the Project and the provision of support in the
preparation of Rural Investment Subprojects.
2. 
The Borrower, through MAGyP, shall ensure that UCAR is, at all times during
Project implementation, assisted by technical and administrative staff, all in
numbers and with terms of reference, and qualifications and experience,
acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower, through MAGyP, shall cause the Participating Provinces, through
the respective Participation Agreements, to operate and maintain, at all times
during Project implementation, provincial implementation units with functions
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and with staff in numbers and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
(a) 
For purposes of assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts 1 and
3(a) of the Project, the Borrower, through UCAR, may enter into
technical assistance agreements with one or more Technical Assistance
Entities 
("Technical 
Assistance 
Agreements") 
under terms 
and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (as these are further detailed in the
Operational Manual).
(b) 
The Borrower, through UCAR, shall: (i) exercise its rights under each
Technical Assistance Agreement in such manner as to protect the interest
of the Borrower and the Bank to accomplish the purposes of the Loan;
and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, terminate,
waive or fail to enforce the pertinent Technical Assistance Agreement or
any rovision thereof.
-8-
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of a Technical Assistance
Agreements and those of the Operational Manual and/or this Agreement,
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
5. 
(a) 
For purposes of assisting the Borrower, through MAGyP, in the
managing of contracting and payment of individual consultants under
Parts land 3(a) of the Project, the Borrower, through UCAR, may enter
into an agreement (the "Contracting Management Agreement") with an
agency (the "Contracting Management Entity"), under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (as these are further detailed in the
Operational Manual).
(b) 
The Borrower, through UCAR, shall: (i) exercise its rights under the
Contracting Management Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interest of the Borrower and the Bank to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Contracting Management
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of the Contracting
Management Agreement and those of the Operational Manual and/or this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Manuals
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MAGyP, shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with
the provisions of the Operational Manual and the Environmental and Social
Management Framework; (b) if applicable, cause: (i) the pertinent Beneficiary
Community or Producer Organization (as the case may be) to comply with the
pertinent provisions of the Operational Manual and the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) in connection with their participation in the
carrying out of relevant Subprojects; or (ii) the pertinent Participating Province to
cause the pertinent Beneficiary Community to comply with the pertinent
provisions of the Operational Manual and the ESMF in connection with its
participation in the carrying out of the relevant Rural Investment Subproject.
2. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual, the
Environmental 
and Social Management Framework, 
and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-
D. 
Subprojects
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through
MAGyP, shall:
(a) 
if applicable, prior to the carrying out of any given Rural Investment
Subproject, transfer, on a grant basis, part of the proceeds of the Loan to
either: (i) the corresponding Participating Province pursuant to the terms
of an agreement (the Participation Agreement) to be entered between the
Borrower, through MAGyP, and the pertinent Participating Province,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include,
inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; or (ii) the
corresponding Beneficiary Community pursuant to the terms of an
agreement (the Rural Investment Subproject Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower, through MAGyP, and the pertinent
Beneficiary Community, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Participation
Agreement and each Rural Investment Subproject Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MAGyP, shall
not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation
Agreement and/or any Rural Investment Subproject Agreement, or any of their
provisions.
3. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 3 (b) of the Project, the Borrower, through
MAGyP shall:
(a) 
prior to the carrying out of any given Productive Alliance Subproject,
transfer, on a grant basis, part of the proceeds of the Loan to the
corresponding Producer Organization pursuant to the terms of an
agreement (the Productive Alliance Subproject Agreement), under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Productive
Alliance Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interest
of the Borrower and the Bank to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
- 10 -
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MAGyP, shall
not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Productive
Alliance Subproject Agreement or any of its provisions.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.D of this Schedule, and prior to
the carrying out of any given Subproject, the Borrower, through MAGyP, shall
and, if applicable, shall cause the pertinent Participating Province (under the
pertinent Participation Agreement) to: (a) carry out an environmental/social
screening and/or an environmental/social assessment (as the case may be) of the
pertinent works/activities, and if provided for in the ESMF, prepare and approve
an environmental/social management plan or similar environmental or social
safeguards instrument, acceptable to the Bank, for each said works/activities, all
in accordance with the pertinent provisions of the Environmental and Social
Management Framework; and (b) immediately after said approval, implement
and/or 
cause 
the 
corresponding 
Beneficiary 
Community 
or 
Producer
Organization 
to implement 
(as 
the case may 
be) the 
corresponding
environmental/social 
management 
plan 
(or 
similar 
environmental/social
safeguards instrument) in accordance with its terms.
2. 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of this Agreement, and if, as a
result of the definition of the zone of impact in respect of any given Subproject
and/or of the carrying out of the pertinent environmental/social screening and/or
environmental/social assessment (as referred to in Section I.E.1, of this
Schedule), it is determined that Resettlement will be involved in respect of any
given Subproject, the Borrower, through MAGyP, shall and, if applicable, shall
cause the pertinent Participating Province (under the pertinent Participation
Agreement) to: (a) prior to the carrying out of any works/activities under the
corresponding Subproject, prepare and furnish to the Bank, a resettlement plan
(acceptable to the Bank) for each said Subproject (which plan shall be consistent
with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework included in the
ESMF); 
and 
(b) 
immediately 
thereafter implement 
and/or 
cause 
the
corresponding Beneficiary Community or Producer Organization to implement
each resettlement plan in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.
3. 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of this Agreement, and if as a result
of 
the 
carrying 
out 
of 
the 
environmental/social 
screening 
and/or
environmental/social assessment referred to in Section I.E. 1 of this Schedule, and
when so determined by the Bank as set forth in the IPPF and the Environmental
and Social Management Framework, the Borrower, through MAGyP, shall and,
if applicable, shall cause the pertinent Participating Province (under the pertinent
Participation Agreement) to: (a) prior to the carrying out of any works/activities
under the corresponding Subproject, prepare and furnish to the Bank an
indigenous peoples development plan (acceptable to the Bank) for each said
Subproject (which plan shall be consistent with the provisions of the Indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework included in the ESMF); and (b) immediately
thereafter implement and/or cause the corresponding Beneficiary Community or
Producer Organization to implement each indigenous peoples development plan
in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Other Arrangements
The Borrower, through UCAR, shall ensure the terms of reference for any
consultancy in respect of any Project activity under Part 1(b) of the Project shall
be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such
terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank
Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such
technical assistance.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower, through UCAR, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of Project indicators set forth in
the Operational Manual. 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester (starting on the second semester of 2015), and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) calendar days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower, through UCAR, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through UCAR, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project
Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project, covering the pertinent
calendar semester, in form and substance, satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through UCAR, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
-12-
4. 
The Borrower, through UCAR, shall, prior to the commencement of each
calendar year during Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain
throughout each said calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget
line entry in the national annual budget (starting in calendar year 2015) in order
to keep track of the corresponding expenditures incurred during Project
implementation.
5. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II.B.3 of this Schedule, the
Borrower, through UCAR, shall: (a) hire an independent auditor with experience
and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, for purposes of carrying out semi-
annual financial, procurement and technical audits of the activities under Parts 2
and 3(b) of the Project; (b) each calendar year (starting with the year 2016) have
Parts 2 and 3(b) of the Project semi-annually (or any other period as agreed with
the Bank) audited by the auditor mentioned in (a) herein, relating to the
Borrower's previous calendar semester of Project implementation (or any other
period as agreed with the Bank), in accordance with terms of reference set forth
in the Operational Manual, and consistently applied auditing financial and
technical standards, all acceptable to the Bank; and (c) not later than forty five
(45) calendar days after the end of each calendar semester (or any other period as
agreed with the Bank), furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank the
information as so audited, and such other information concerning the audited
information and such auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably
request.
Section I. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
-13 
-
4. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to the other provisions in Section III.A of
this Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the
procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants' services
under the Project (as the case may be):
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants'
services (in respect of firms) shall be carried out, when applicable as
determined by the Bank, using: (i) standard bidding documents (which
bidding documents in respect of works shall include, if applicable, a
provision whereby the pertinent contractor must comply with the
pertinent provisions of: (A) the Environmental and Social Management
Framework; and (B) the corresponding environmental management plan,
a resettlement plan, and/or an indigenous peoples development plan
(including the provisions of any updated/adjusted version) or similar
safeguard instrument referred to in Sections I.E.1 through I.E.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement in respect of the relevant Subproject) and
standard requests for quotations/proposals (as the case may be), all
acceptable to the Bank, which shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of
dispute provision and the pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines; 
(ii) 
model 
bid 
evaluation 
forms, 
and 
model
quotations/proposals evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii)
model contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
all contracts for works in respect of Subprojects to be procured under the
Project shall contain a methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the
price of each said contract shall be adjusted through the use of price
adjustment formulas, in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(c) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services;
(d) 
after the public opening of bids for goods, works and non-consulting
services, information relating to the examination, clarification and
evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall not be
disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this
process until the publication of contract award. In addition, bidders
and/or other persons not officially concerned with said process shall not
be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders' bids;
(e) 
after the public opening of consultants' proposals, information relating to
the examination, 
clarification 
and evaluation 
of proposals 
and
recommendations concerning 
awards, 
shall not be disclosed to
consultants or other persons not officially concerned with this process
until the publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs
2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). In addition, consultants
-14-
and/or other persons not officially concerned with said process shall not
be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants' proposals;
(f) 
foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
submitting bids or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to
be registered in Argentina (except as provided in the standard bidding
documents referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) above); (ii) be required to
have a representative in Argentina; and (iii) be required to be associated
or subcontract with Argentine suppliers, contractors or consultants;
(g) 
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings,
requests for expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the
evaluation reports of bids and proposals of all goods, works, non-
consulting services and consultants' services procured by the Borrower,
through UCAR, shall be published in the web page of the Borrower's
Office of National Procurement (Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones),
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be
counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of
the availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date
of bid opening;
(h) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and
2.59 of the Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts
for goods, works and non-consulting services to be procured under
National Competitive Bidding procedures;
(i) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be
used by the Borrower, through UCAR, in determining if the bidder in
respect of goods whose bid has been determined to be the lowest
evaluated bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry out the
contract as offered in the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in
paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. The provision set forth in
paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation
set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be
procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures;
(j) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid
rejection or contract award;
(k) 
the Borrower, through UCAR, shall: (i) supply the SEPA with the
information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days
after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the
Procurement Plan biannually, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the
actual project implementation needs and progress and shall supply the
-15-
SEPA with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan
immediately thereafter;
(1) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement
Guidelines providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in
respect of contracts for goods to be procured under International
Competitive Bidding procedures;
(m) 
compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any
given good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for
contract award;
(n) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities;
(o) 
contracts of goods, works and non-consulting services shall not be
awarded to the "most convenient" bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid
has been determined: (i) to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer
the lowest evaluated bid, provided that said bidder has demonstrated to
the Borrower, through UCAR, to be qualified to perform the contract
satisfactorily; and
(p) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant
Guidelines shall be the only types of contracts to be used by the
Borrower, through UCAR, in connection with the contracting of
consultants' services provided by a firm and to be financed with the
proceeds of the Loan.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.
- 16 -
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c) Community Participation
(d) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(b) Single-source Selection
(c) Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
-17-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Consultants' services, 
2,100,000 
100%
non-consulting services,
Training and Operating
Costs under Part 1 of the
Project
(2) (a) Works and goods under 
25, 935,000 
100% of the amount
Community Subprojects 
disbursed under the pertinent
under Part 2 of the Project 
Rural Investment Subproject
Agreement
(b) Non-consulting services
and consultants' services 
1,365,000 
100% of the amount
under Community 
disbursed under the pertinent
Subprojects under Part 2 of 
Rural Investment Subproject
the Project 
Agreement
(3) (a) Works and goods under 
11,115,000 
100% of the amount
IP Community Subprojects 
disbursed under the pertinent
under Part 2 of the Project 
Rural Investment Subproject
Agreement
(b) Non-consulting 
585,000 
100% of the amount
services and consultants' 
disbursed under the pertinent
services under IP 
Rural Investment Subproject
Community Subprojects 
Agreement
under Part 2 of the Project
(4) Consultants' services, 
1,000,000 
100%
non-consulting services,
Goods, Training and
Operating Costs under Part
3(a) of the Project
- 18-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(5) (a) Works and goods under 
9,500,000 
100% of amount disbursed
Productive Alliances 
under the pertinent
Subprojects under Part 3(b) 
Productive Alliances
of the Project 
Subproject Agreement
(b) Non-consulting 
500,000 
100% of amount disbursed
services, consultants' 
under the pertinent
services and Operating 
Productive Alliances
Costs under Productive 
Subproject Agreement
Alliances Subprojects
under Part 3 (b) of the
Project
(6) Goods, consultants' 
268,750 
100%
services and non-consulting
services under Part 4 of the
Project
(7) Front-end Fee 
131,250 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(8) Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Caps or Interest Rate 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Collars 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
52,500,000
3. 
For purposes of this paragraph:
(a) 
the term "Training" 
means expenditures (other than those 
for
consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower, through UCAR, all as
approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual budget acceptable to the
Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees
and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, and rental of
training facilities and equipment; and
(b) 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have
-19-
been incurred by the Borrower, through UCAR, absent the Project, for
the implementation of the Project including, inter alia: (i) lodging, per
diem and transportation expenditures incurred by Buyers who provide
technical assistance to Producer Organizations under Productive Alliance
Subprojects up to the percentage established in the Operational Manual;
and (ii) fees to intermediary agents who participate in the process of
alliance promotion and preparation and whose work is assessed by
technical evaluation groups in accordance with the conditions provided
in the Operational Manual; excluding civil servant salaries.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,500,000 equivalent may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after October 23, 2014 (but in no case
more than one year prior to the Signature Date), for Eligible Expenditures if the
pertinent obligations set forth in this Agreement, as applicable to each Eligible
Expenditure, have been complied with.
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2021.
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2022 
2.04%
through December 15, 2045
On June 15, 2046 
2.08%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-21-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Rural Investment Subproject Agreements
Each Rural Investment Subproject Agreement monitored and supervised by the
Borrower shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through MAGyP:
(i) 
to promptly disburse to each Beneficiary Community the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to the corresponding Rural
Investment Subproject in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Rural Investment Subproject is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines;
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through MAGyP, to take remedial actions
against the pertinent Beneficiary Community in case said Beneficiary
Community shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under
the pertinent Rural Investment Subproject Agreement (which actions
may include, inter alia, the partial or total suspension and/or cancellation
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Rural Investment
Subproject, all as previously agreed with the Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each Beneficiary Community:
(i) 
to carry out the pertinent Rural Investment Subproject with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, social and
cultural property practices, in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (applicable to recipients of Loan
proceeds other than the Borrower), the Procurement Guidelines,
the Consultant Guidelines, the Operational Manual and the
ESMF;
(ii) 
to use the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the pertinent Rural
Investment Subproject solely for purpose of financing said
subproject;
(iii) 
to co-finance part of the cost of the pertinent Rural Investment
Subproject as provided in the Operational Manual, and provide,
promptly as needed, the services, facilities and other counterpart
resources necessary or appropriate to carry out the corresponding
subproject;
-23-
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the pertinent Rural Investment Subproject Agreement or
any provision thereof, unless previously agreed by the Borrower,
through MAGyP, and the Bank;
(v) 
if applicable, to comply, or caused to be complied, with the
obligations referred to in Sections 5.05, 5.06 (a), 5.07, 5.10 and
5.11 of the General Conditions (relating to land acquisition, use
of goods, works and services, plans, supporting documentation,
cooperation, consultation and visits, respectively) in respect of
the pertinent Rural Investment Subproject; and
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through MAGyP, to comply with its obligations referred to in
this Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent
Rural Investment Subproject.
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Productive Alliance Subproject Agreements
Each Productive Alliance Subproject Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the
following provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through MAGyP:
(i) 
to promptly disburse to each Producer Organization the proceeds
of the Loan allocated to the corresponding Productive Alliance
Subproject in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) 
if a Buyer were to provide technical assistance to a Producer
Organization 
under a Productive Alliance 
Subproject, to
reimburse Operating Costs (as such term is defined in Section
IV.A.3(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) up to the percentage
set forth in the Operational Manual to that effect;
(iii) 
if necessary, 
to 
guarantee 
credit 
access 
to 
Producer
Organizations, with the objective of financing their respective
percentage of the cost of the pertinent Productive Alliance
Subproject (as such percentage is set forth in the Operational
Manual);
(iv) 
to ensure that the pertinent Productive Alliance Subproject is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; and
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through MAGyP, to take remedial actions
against the pertinent Producer Organization in case said Producer
Organization shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations
under the pertinent Productive Alliance Subproject Agreement (which
actions may include, inter alia, the partial or total suspension and/or
cancellation of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the pertinent
Productive Alliance Subproject (as the case may be), all as previously
agreed with the Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each Producer Organization:
(i) 
to carry out the pertinent Productive Alliance Subproject with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental, social
and cultural property practices, in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (applicable to recipients of
-25-
Loan proceeds other than the Borrower), the Procurement
Guidelines, the Consultant Guidelines, the Operational Manual
and the ESMF;
(ii) 
to use the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the pertinent
Productive Alliance Subproject solely for purpose of financing
said subproject;
(iii) 
to co-finance part of the cost of the pertinent Productive Alliance
Subproject as provided in the Operational Manual, and provide,
promptly as needed, the services, facilities and other counterpart
resources necessary or appropriate to carry out the corresponding
subproject;
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Productive Alliance Subproject Agreement or any
provision thereof, unless previously agreed by the Borrower,
through MAGyP, and the Bank;
(v) 
if applicable, to comply, or caused to be complied, with the
obligations referred to in Sections 5.05, 5.06 (a), 5.07, 5.10 and
5.11 of the General Conditions (relating to land acquisition, use
of goods, works and services, plans, supporting documentation,
cooperation, consultation and visits, respectively) in respect of
the pertinent Productive Alliance Subproject; and
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through MAGyP, to comply with its obligations referred to in
this Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent
Productive Alliance.
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Participating Agreements
Each Participation Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through MAGyP:
(i) 
to promptly disburse, on a grant basis, to each Participating Province the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to the corresponding Rural Investment
Subproject(s) in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Rural Investment Subproject is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through MAGyP, to take remedial actions against the
pertinent Participating Province in case said Participating Province shall have
failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent Participation
Agreement (which actions may include, inter alia, the partial or total suspension
and/or cancellation of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Rural
Investment Subproject, all as previously agreed with the Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each Participating Province:
(i) 
to ensure that the pertinent Rural Investment Subproject is carried out in
accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement (including
the pertinent obligations set forth in the Procurement and Financial
Management sections), the Operational Manual, the ESMF and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; and
(ii) 
prior to the carrying out of any given Rural Investment Subproject, enter
into an agreement with the corresponding Beneficiary Community under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank which shall include the
terms set forth in paragraph (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
-27-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published
under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Buyer" means a qualified market agent (such as a wholesaler, large retailer,
agroprocessor or exporter) who participates in a Productive Alliance, as specified
in the Operational Manual.
4. 
"Beneficiary Community" means a group of individuals, communities (including
indigenous people communities) or organizations who have met the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual to carry out Rural Investment Subprojects.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Community Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in Part 2 of
the Project (except for IP Community Subprojects).
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 and revised July 2104.
8. 
"Contracting Management Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"Contracting Management Entity" means any private or public entity acceptable
to the Bank, that may assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts 1(a), 1(b), 2
and 3(a) of the Project, and that complies with the terms, conditions and
eligibility criteria set forth to that effect in the Operational Manual.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Borrower's framework, dated October 21, 2014 (included in the Operational
Manual), which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the guidelines for carrying out the
environmental assessments referred to in Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; (b) the generic description of the type of environmental impacts
which may affect Subprojects and the actions to mitigate any negative impacts
-28-
that may occur as a result of their implementation; (c) the guidelines to be
followed in connection with the finding of cultural property; (d) the guidelines to
be followed to prevent natural habitat conversion or degradation; (e) the
guidelines for public consultation; (f) the procedures and technical specifications
to be followed by eligible contractors in the carrying out of Subprojects; (g) the
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and (h) the Resettlement Policy
Framework, as said framework may be updated and/or amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework, acceptable to the Bank (included in the ESMF), dated October 21,
2014, setting forth the indigenous peoples policy framework applicable to all the
activities to be carried out under the Project and the basis and procedures to
prepare specific indigenous peoples' plans or related instruments during Project
implementation under Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"IP Community Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in Part 2 of
the Project in which indigenous peoples are direct Beneficiary Communities of
the activities supported by said investments.
14. 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization, an international-
standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national
standards organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and
commercial standards for products.
15. 
"MAGyP" means Ministerio de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Pesca, the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, or any successor thereto.
16. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual acceptable to the Bank, which sets
forth, inter alia: (a) the eligibility criteria for selecting Beneficiary Communities,
Producer Organizations, Buyers and approval of Subprojects; (b) the structures,
functions and responsibilities of UCAR under the Project; (c) the Environmental
and Social Management Framework; (d) the Project's chart of accounts and
internal controls; (e) the formats of: (i) the unaudited interim financial reports
referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the
Financial Statements; (f) the terms of reference for carrying out the Project audits
under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (g) the Project
performance indicators (including the results framework); (h) the Project
disbursement and procurement procedures; and (i) standard models of the
Productive Alliance Subproject Agreement and the Rural Investment Subproject
- 29 -
Agreement, as said manual may be updated and/or amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 and revised July 2014.
18. 
"Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.D. 1 (a) (i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"Participating Province" means any of the political subdivisions of the Borrower
as per Title Two of the Borrower's Constitution which has met the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to monitor and supervise a Rural
Investment Subproject.
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated October 23, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Producer Organization" means an organization of small producers which has
met the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as defined above)
to benefit from a Productive Alliance Subproject under Part 3(b) of the Project.
22. 
"Productive Alliance" 
means a business 
venture between 
a Producer
Organization and a Buyer to carry out a Productive Alliance Subproject that will
meet particular specifications such as quantity, quality and delivery schedule.
23. 
"Productive Alliance Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in
Part 3 (b) of the Project.
24. 
"Productive Alliance Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section I.D.3 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living
adversely affected; or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; 
or (d) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
-30-
26. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework,
dated October 21, 2014, acceptable to the Bank (included in the ESMF) which
sets forth, inter alia, the principles and objectives governing Resettlement
preparation and implementation, and a description of the applicable legal
framework of the Borrower and of each Participating Province and the process
for preparing and approving resettlement plans under Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
27. 
"Rural Investment Subproject" means either a Community Subproject and/or an
IP Community Subproject, as specified in the Operational Manual.
28. 
"Rural Investment Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred
to in Section I.D. 1 (a) (ii) of Schedule 2 and paragraph (c) (ii) of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
29. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.
30. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and
the Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references
to "the date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
31. 
"Subproject" means either a Community Subproject, an IP Community
Subproject and/or a Productive Alliances Subproject, all as specified in the
Operational Manual.
32. 
"Technical Assistance Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
33. 
"Technical Assistance Entity" means any public or private entity (or entities),
acceptable to the Bank, that may assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts
1(a), 1(b) and 3(a) of the Project, and that complies with the technical eligibility
criteria set forth to that effect in the Operational Manual.
34. 
"UCAR" means Unidadpara el Cambio Rural, the Unit for Agricultural Change,
established within MAGyP, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-31 -
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if
-32-
any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
